---
tags:
  - source/realm-book
---
Dragon-Blooded sorcerers, stigmatized by Dynastic society, commonly gather into small societies to network, make friendships, and throw parties they can attend without feeling unwanted. These may be as small as one Hearth or as large as thirty members. Some go to great lengths to conceal their membership, communicating only through intermediaries and Infallible Messengers. Others proclaim membership by displaying intricately inked mystic tattoos, decorative sashes, or the society’s preferred colors. 
# The Sorcerers of the Scarlet Throne
This society is open to any registered sorcerer residing in Scarlet Prefecture, and thus is full of connivers with political leanings who seek to live as close to the Realm’s governance as possible. They made grand shows of serving the Empress at her request, a folly she always enjoyed. She spoke of the importance of the tasks she entrusted to them and their vital importance to the Realm, while assigning them unimportant duties and makework. Since her disappearance, the society has descended into pointless squabbling, although a small group has approached the prefect of Scarlet Prefecture and the Imperial City’s governor, quietly offering support should civil war break out. 
# The Cabal of Righteous Midwives
Summoning neomah to create children is a disreputable practice within the Realm, with the exception of the Precedent of Rawar (Dragon-Blooded, p. 98). This isn’t purely irrational prejudice — a novice summoner who ill understands the nature of the demon she summons may issue instructions it cannot properly comprehend or adequately fulfill, and even the makers of flesh can suffer the occasional mishap. However, for sterile Dynasts or those in same-sex marriages, the demons’ service is among the only ways to have children of their own bloodline. The Cabal of Righteous Midwives offers such Dynasts their distinctive services. Specialists in binding neomah, they study the demons’ alien psychologies to avoid common pitfalls and consult Immaculate monks for scriptural guidance. The price for their services is steep, even for a Dynast, yet they rarely want for paying clients. 
# The Watchers
The Empress commissioned the Watchers to police their brethren for reckless demon summoning, infernalism, or spiritual corruption. While Imperial law and Immaculate orthodoxy permits Dragon-Blooded to summon demons, the Empress had no tolerance for sorcerers whose folly led to demons wreaking havoc, nor for traitors who’d serve the demon princes. The Watchers gathered evidence on suspect sorcerers and turned it over to the Empress to dispense punishment. Now, no one knows who the Watchers are or what they’re doing. They’ve become bogeymen for Dynastic sorcerers, who whisper that mysterious deaths among their ranks are a sign that the Watchers have taken punishment into their own hands.