The Guild is the most powerful trade association under mortal control, and the most influential mortal-run organization in Creation. This mercantile enterprise spans the entire Threshold and extends tendrils to the world’s edges. 

Its fleets and caravans tie Creation together. In cities, Guild businesses employ vendors, accountants, and artificers, while Guild wholesalers supply foodstuffs, timber, ores, and other essentials. Caravans provide markets in the hinterlands, offering otherwise unavailable goods and entertainment along their routes. 

But while the Guild’s efforts aid many, it is an engine for profit, and it wrings all the wealth it can from the world. Many Guildsmen deal in the “soft trade” of drugs and the “hard trade” of slaves; both draw new brokers no matter how many slavers or dealers a hero might kill or drive off. The most daring Guild slavers even barter with the Fair Folk; there’s always a market for their dead-eyed, soul-eaten, quietly obedient victims. Guild leaders also use their economic influence as a weapon against rival mercantile interests—and against city-states that interfere with profits. 

Caravans and ships largely travel between hub cities—sites prosperous enough to make commerce profitable. In these places, merchants, artisans, and clerks apply for Guild membership, paying dues in exchange for access to contacts, talent, and information. Those of the highest ranks—master artisans, the venture capitalists called factors, and the wholesalers called keeps—serve on the cities’ nine-member Guild Councils. 

The wealthiest and most powerful Guildsmen jockey for election to the role of hierarch. Meeting in the city of Nexus, the nine hierarchs of the secretive Guild Directorate set policy for the entire organization. The Exalted rarely achieve such heights, as Guild members resist placing the Chosen in position to use the organization as a tool for personal ambition rather than profit.