---
tags:
  - charm
  - Sidereal
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: 1m, 1wp
Mins: Investigation 3, Essence 1
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Indefinite
Prerequisite Charms:
  - None
---
Clapping her hands over a small plant, the Sidereal bids it grow into a dedicated savant, taking on a human-like shape. The Sidereal turns a plant into a wood elemental that serves as her research assistant. She can have up to ([[Intelligence]]) assistants. Upon purchasing this Charm, the Sidereal chooses three of the follow [[Charms]], granting it to her research assistants. She can purchase additional [[Charms]] for them for three experience points or one bonus point each. Academic Diligence (Permanent): Assistants’ [[Willpower]] increases to (higher of Sidereal’s [[Essence]] or 3). Divine Functionary (Permanent): If the Sidereal knows [[Superior-Entreating Memorial Style]] (p. XX), [[Underling Invisibility Practice]] (p. XX), or [[Wise Choice]] (p. XX), her secretaries can also use those [[Charms]]. Flourishing Knowledge (Permanent): Assistants gain a [[Lore]] background of the Sidereal’s choice. At the end of each story, she can choose an additional [[Lore]] background to grant them. Expeditious Study (5m; Simple; Instant): The assistant can read a page of text in a second and longer texts in one to ten minutes. Hurry Home (10m, 1wp; Simple; Instant): The assistant begins to visibly fade away. At the start of its next turn, it vanishes, reappearing either at the Sidereal’s side or in any library, archive, or the like that she personally maintains. Swift Reed Stylus (5m; Simple; Instant): The assistant writes with incredible speed, able to complete a page-long memorandum in seconds or copy out a large book in a day. Tome-Summoning Requisition (5m; Simple; Instant): The assistant summons any book or other repository of information contained in a library, archive, or the like that the assistant’s currently in or that’s maintained by the Sidereal or her subordinates. Research Assistants [THIS IS A STAT BLOCK IN A SIDEBAR] [[Essence]]: 1; [[Willpower]]: 1; [[Join Battle]]: N/A (see Wilt) Personal Motes: (Sidereal’s [[Essence]] x5) Health Levels: −0/−1/−2/−4/Incap. Actions: Administration: 6 dice; Crafting: 4 dice; Resist Poison/Disease: 6 dice; Scholarship: 10 dice (see Fruits of Knowledge); Senses: 4 dice. [[Appearance]] 1, [[Resolve]] 2, [[Guile]] 2 Intimacies Defining Tie: The Sidereal (Loyalty) Defining Principle: The pursuit of knowledge is my greatest joy. Minor Principle: My temperament, habits, and preferences reflect the plant I was created from. [[Merits]] Fruits of Knowledge: The research assistant has all the Sidereal’s [[Lore]] backgrounds. If she uses this Charm in a library, archive, academy, or other place of knowledge, she can also grant it a [[Lore]] background appropriate to that body of knowledge. Photosynthesis: The research assistant has no need for food or sleep; instead, it must receive at least eight hours of sunlight a day to provide nourishment and recover [[Willpower]]. Wilt: In combat, the research assistant immediately collapses back into the form of the plant it was created from, rather than fighting. The Sidereal can call it back out once combat ends with a subsequent use of this Charm.