*Essence: 1; Willpower: 5; Join Battle: 9 dice Health Levels: −0x2/−1x4/−2x2/−4/Incap.*
Speed Bonus: +4. The hound can maintain a speed of sixty miles per hour over open terrain indefinitely. Actions: Endure Poison/Disease: 10 dice; Feats of Strength: 10 dice (may attempt Strength 5 feats), Intimidate: 9 dice; Senses: 12 dice (see Scent of Five Winds); Stealth: 9 dice; Tracking: 12 dice (see Scent of Five Winds) Appearance 2 (Hideous), Resolve 4, Guile 1 COMBAT Attack (Bite): 12 dice (Damage 14L/2) Attack (Grapple): 11 dice (10 to control) Combat Movement: 12 dice [[Defense|Evasion]]: 4; [[Defense|Parry]]: 3 Soak/Hardness: 6/4 INTIMACIES Defining Tie: The Sorcerer (Loyalty) SPECIAL ABILITIES Pack Hunting: The hound adds one automatic success on attack rolls for each ally within close range of that enemy, maximum +3 successes. On a decisive attack, it may pay one Willpower to add that many dice on the damage roll as well. Prey-Seizing Bite: On the turn that a hound moves into close range of an enemy, if it deals 5+ withering damage to him, that enemy can’t disengage or withdraw on his next turn. It can pay one Willpower to reflexively grapple him, adding extra successes on the gambit attack roll as bonus dice on the grapple control roll. It can only take the restrain, savage, and release grapple actions. MERITS Guardian Beast: The hound ignores all penalties for flurrying defend other actions. It gains +2 [[Defense|Parry]] to protect the sorcerer. Relentless Pursuit: Once the hound has caught its quarry’s scent, it ignores fatigue penalties while pursuing its prey. It treats any influence that would impede its pursuit or cause it to stop as unacceptable, except for the sorcerer’s orders. Scent of Five Winds: The hound doubles 8 on scentbased Senses and Tracking rolls. Once it’s caught its quarry’s scent, it can roll to detect it from up to 100 miles away, though it may suffer penalties based on distance, weather, and the like. It can contest perfect track-concealing magic like Traceless Passag