---
Dots: 1 or 2
tags:
  - Thaumaturgy
---
The one-dot ritual involves the taking of tea in order to divine a character’s destiny. The character whose destiny is to be read must empty tea leaves into a hot teacup, then dwell over the steam and reflections in the cup, and drink it down while emptying his mind of clutter. When the tea is gone, only the leaves remain, and the mystic may divine her target’s greater destiny with a difficulty 2 (Perception + Occult) roll. A greater destiny informs the character’s next defining accomplishment. It is not a prediction of where the character’s life will end, but rather the next major course it will take. The mystic may also read a character’s immediate destiny to get an idea of the most important life-event the character will engage in that day, though it is difficulty 4. Failing this roll still gives the thaumaturgist an accurate result, but the details are extremely hazy. Even when successful, the tea-reader often cannot explain or doesn’t understand what she sees. She might see her client bumping into a woman on a nearby dock at sunset, but this doesn’t mean she knows who the woman is or why the event is significant.

The two-dot version of this ritual has almost the exact same procedure, but a different use. The mystic can use different flavors of tea with different seasonal associations to divine the best opportunities for success and failure a character has during a certain month. The mystic cannot dictate exactly what the tea will show her—she can’t tell whether a merchant taking a trip down the Diamond Road to Gem will be beset by Yena’s daughters—but she can generally see either the largest failure or success in the merchant’s life during the time in which he plans to take the trip. This is a difficulty 3 roll, and failing it still gives accurate but hazy information, with the potential for misinformation. A botch for either ritual always misinforms

Reading tea leaves is *generally* common. In a populace of ten thousand, there will be at least one tea reader if tea consumption is an important part of regional culture.