---
tags:
  - object
  - Artifact
  - source/arms-book
Attunement: 5m
Type: Medium (+8 Soak, Hardness 7, Mobility Penalty −1)
WeaponTags:
  - "[[Item Tags#Silent|Silent]]"
Hearthstone slots: 1
Era: Fallen Tower Dynasty
---
At first glance, Unison is an outfit of ordinary — if stylish — black clothing. Only when its master charges it with Essence does it appear as the formidable artifact it is. Unison is no mere accessory, but an extension of self, fashioned by the vanquished Lunar queen Kirka of the Empty Palace, whose famed Simhata Legions were slaughtered mercilessly by the countless forces of the raksha lords. Her lands, people, and wonders all lost to the Wyld, she seethed with rage at everything that had been taken from her and vowed vengeance against the Fair Folk. For decades she labored alone in her hollow subterranean fortress-manse to forge a suit of armor that would be an inextricable part of her being — something they could never take away from her without also taking her life. Together, Kirka and the armor she called Unison slew thousands of the Fair Folk’s soldiers before death claimed her and severed their connection forever. The dormant artifact still covers her rotting corpse in the entry hall of her manse, disconnected now from Creation by miles of bordermarches, forgotten by time. Unison layers black silk and thin leather under a long hauberk of closely knit chain links that glimmer subtly in the light. This form-fitting chainmail is a dark, silver-gray alloy of moonsilver, steel, and liquid mercury from the Empty Palace’s hearthroom, infused with the long-dead Lunar queen’s blood. Fingerless chain gloves and a pair of sleek greaves complete the suit. As the wearer unlocks its true power, Unison transforms first itself and then its Exalt in a growing synchronization that culminates in perfect harmony of form. After having been attuned to it for a long time, its master starts to think of herself and the armor as literally one being, even when not wearing it. 
 
## Evocations of Unison

Unison enables three stages of transformation, called miens, that draw it increasingly closer to its master. When the wearer shifts from one mien to another, all motes committed to the old mien count towards the new mien’s cost. All miens terminate at end of scene. Argent Handshake Mien (3m): Like two strangers dancing the tango for the first time, Unison and its wearer take the first step in becoming partners as ordinary clothing transforms into battle armor. Upon rolling Join Battle, the wearer may enter this mien to give Unison +2 soak and +1 Hardness. In Argent Handshake Mien, Unison becomes familiar with its wearer, and sends its protective Essence coursing through her chakras to mingle with her own. Quicksilver Host Mien (5m, 2i): Asserting its identity, Unison supplements the Exalt’s power with its own wild, adaptable character. While in Argent Handshake Mien, the wearer mayshiftintothismienasamiscellaneousaction.Thearmor becomes a skintight weave of compact rings like tiny scales — conforming flawlessly to the Exalt’s body — and loses its mobility penalty. Its quicksilver surface allows its wearer to glide between breezes, increasing her Evasion by 1. She may revert to Argent Handshake Mien as a miscellaneous action. Final Unity Mien (7m, 3i): The Exalt merges completely with the armor. Her armored body, made head-to-toe of Unison’s distinctive moonsilver alloy, may show cosmetic characteristics of her anima banner or spirit shape, such as glowing Old Realm runes for an iconic mandala or silvery feathers for a Lunar with an eagle icon. While in Quicksilver Host Mien, the wearer may shift into this mien as a miscellaneous action. The armor’s Hardness increases by (Essence), and she adds (Essence) to her unarmed attacks’ raw decisive damage. She cannot be knocked prone or knocked back by smash attacks. She weighs twice as much as usual and automatically sinks in water. She may revert to Quicksilver Host Mien as a miscellaneous action. Characters dissonant with moonsilver cannot enter this mien.
