---
tags:
  - charm
  - Solar
  - Apocryphal
  - source/solar-miracles-book
Cost: 10m, 3a, 1wp
Mins: Essence 3
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Apocryphal
Duration: One scene
Prerequisite Charms:
  - ???
---
When a Solar has a deeply physical and spiritual bond with one of the [[Lunar Exalted]], that Lunar is said to be her bond mate — a tradition going back thousands of years. This Charm is occluded, hidden from the normal roll of Solar Abilities, and only becomes available to the Solar to learn if she has a Defining [[Intimacy|Tie]] for her Lunar and vice versa, and if their bond has been deeply established according to the Storyteller. Then, in circumstances where they are touching each other — sparring, one holding the other’s wrist to keep them from going over a cliff, sharing a kiss, etc — the Storyteller may deem that the Solar feels a sudden oneness with her Lunar. The Lunar will feel this same oneness in turn. Roll their combined [[Essence]] scores, and if the result is one or greater, the Storyteller describes a numinous moment in which the Solar and Lunar touch mind and soul and become as one. This can be a completely disassociated stream of consciousness event, or it can be a series of images from their past lives. The end of this sequence leaves the Solar capable of learning this Charm. This Charm allows the Solar to physically merge with her Lunar mate, becoming a single entity of divine wrath and living flame for one scene. The combined being resembles a fusion of the Solar’s physical form with her iconic anima, and the spirit-animal of her Lunar mate. This form usually has four arms, has bestial and ethereal traits, such as horns, hair that floats and crackles with lightning, gale force-winds that whip around in her vicinity, and so on. The mote pool for the merged being is the Solar’s current pool + 25, and the health levels of the combined being are equal to the Lunar’s undamaged health levels. As a quick character, the fusion has all of the traits of the Solar, but the players may do the work to assign the merged character its own sheet, giving it the Lunar’s Attributes and the Solar’s Abilities. In any case, the merged Exalt uses all of the Solar’s [[Charms]] for actions, but its Attributes on any roll can be enhanced by any Attribute-boosting [[Charms]] the Lunar has learned. In addition, the form gains horns, fangs, claws, wings, and other mutations applicable to the Lunar’s spirit form and the Solar’s iconic manifestation, a number equal to the Lunar’s [[Appearance]] or [[Stamina]] +1. These natural weapons can be used to use animal attacks such as Bite, Gore, and so on, listed in the antagonists chapter of Exalted. To use this Charm, the Exalts must share a Defining [[Intimacy|Principle]] that they are merging in order to defend. If they are killed while in this form, they both die. Once they have used this Charm, they may not end their merged form until the end of the scene, though they may choose to end it if they fall into [[Initiative]] Crash. 

### On Hallowed Bond of [[Night]] and Flame

This Charm was written in response to a backer’s desire to see a Charm that uses the Solar / Lunar bond to make a merged being with some combination of Solar and Lunar [[Charms]] and appearance. This Charm is hugely apocryphal. If we were to allow something like this to happen normally, we’d require a deeper buildup with a number of requisite [[Charms]] and story events. However, it is a delightful Charm and if you really want to use it we hope the Apocryphal keyword won’t get in your way. According to the backer, this Charm was used by her Lunar, Scarlet-[[Wings]]-Over-The-Mountain and her Solar lover, Brass Storm Spirit. Storytellers beware, this Charm is mechanically overpowered. Use with caution. Backer: Jennifer Alyxendra Barron