---
tags:
  - charm
  - Lunar
  - source/lunar-book
Cost: 15m, 2wp
Mins: Manipulation 5, Essence 4
Type: Reflexive
Keywords:
  - Mute
Duration: Instant
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[Butterfly Eyes Mirage]]"
  - "[[Silver Mask Submersion]]"
---
An omnipresent trickster, the Lunar hides behind every face, in the shape of every buzzing insect or scuttling vermin, anywhere and everywhere. During a scene where the Lunar isn’t present, she can use this Charm to reveal that a human or animal already present whose form she could take is actually her. She gains its heart’s blood as a retroactive sacred hunt, and must pay the cost to shapeshift into it, muting the cost. This can only be used to replace narratively unimportant characters, and never powerful beings such as Exalted or spirits — in a scene set at a prince’s court, the Lunar couldn’t replace the prince, one of his trusted viziers, or the captain of the palace guard, but could replace a servant or a rank-and-file guard. She couldn’t declare that the rogue yeddim stampeding through Nexus is actually her, but could reveal that she’s been the songbird singing from a tree, or a fly buzzing around a satrap’s meal (assuming she has [[Emerald Grasshopper Form]]). For the scene’s duration, characters cannot roll to read her intentions, profile her, or spot her [[Lunar Shapeshifting/Tell]] — her presence there is proof she hasn’t been found out. Only [[Eye of the Unconquered Sun]] or similarly mighty magic can reveal her. If the Lunar initiates hostilities after using this Charm, she may potentially launch an ambush (Exalted, p. 203). This Charm represents the Lunar’s deft skill at infiltration and impersonation. If the Storyteller deems it implausible for her to appear in a scene — for example, if it’s set in a fortress whose guards are on the lookout for shapeshifters, or the manse of a Dragon-Blood with potent [[Awareness]] and [[Investigation]] [[Charms]] — he may require a ([[Manipulation]] + [Larceny, [[Socialize]], or Stealth]) roll against an appropriate difficulty to succeed, maximum 10. Successfully circumventing an Imperial military camp’s guards might be difficulty 2-4, depending on the quality of the troops posted, while sneaking under the notice of an all-seeing Solar or infiltrating a meeting of gods and Sidereals might be difficulty 10. On a failed roll, she’s unable to enter the scene. Even if successful, she must still explain how she’s insinuated herself into it. However, assuming the Lunar succeeds on the roll and contrives an appropriate explanation, there are no circumstances whereby it’s truly impossible for her to infiltrate a scene as long as a viable candidate for replacement is present. This Charm can only be used once per story. An [[Essence]] 5 repurchase requires [[False Moonrise Phantasm]], and lets the Lunar pay a fifteen-mote, one-[[Willpower]] surcharge to use this Charm in scenes where she’s already present. In addition to replacing another character present in the scene, she reveals that the person that seemed to be her was someone else that the Lunar passed off as a perfect duplicate of herself at some point during the last round. She can use this Charm to evade an attack’s damage after it’s rolled; doing so requires her to make a roll, as above, against a difficulty equal to the total levels of damage dealt.