---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
There are two ways to track ammunition for ranged fighters in Exalted. The first is to keep track of how many arrows, throwing [[Knife|knives]], and so forth the character has on him, taking pains to retrieve ammunition and weapons from fallen enemies, or ensuring the character arrives with more than enough arrows to suit his needs. A less math-intensive and more dramatic method is to periodically make a roll to see if the character is running out of ammo. This roll should occur every five rounds or so, though modify this up or down if the character hasn’t been shooting much, or has been spraying volleys of missiles into enemies. As more-skilled characters tend to waste fewer shots, roll [[Archery]] or [[Thrown]] with a mounting -1 penalty each time it repeats. Failure indicates that the character is out of ammunition, and must resort to other means of combat, or scavenge more ammunition by some means. Increase the penalty to -2 if the character is using very limited ammunition stockpiles, such as a bundle of [[Javelin|javelins]] or pouches of firedust charges. Scavenging for more ammunition is a ([[Wits]] + {Awareness, [[Survival]], or War}) action with a difficulty dictated by the Storyteller based on availability of the needed sort of ammunition nearby. Scavenging more arrows might be difficulty 1 to 3 depending on the battlefield, scavenging rocks for a [[sling]] is almost certainly always difficulty 1, and scavenging firedust is likely impossible on most battlefields.