---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
When helping players create custom Charms, Storytellers should keep the following rules of thumb in mind. 

# Efficiency
The Charms here describe the Solars at the peak of their power. Players should not be allowed to design Charms which are simply an existing Charm, but less expensive or more powerful for the same cost. These Charms also act as an effective power-to-efficiency benchmark. If a custom Charm is somewhat similar to an existing Charm, why is it more powerful, or weaker? Has it gained or lost features? Does it have higher prerequisites? More stringent restrictions on when it can be used? 
# Coherence
Solar Charm trees work along a theme. A grabbag assortment of whatever a player wants her character to do is not a proper Charm tree—new effects should grow logically from existing effects, or build sensible new trees to reach desired complex or powerful effects. 
# Theme
Solars are the heroes of the dawn. They are the savants, warriors and god-kings of old, wakened from the sleep of ages in order to save their world from the darkness that threatens to consume it. Their power takes the shape of the Unconquered Sun’s: infinite in its excellence, but not infinitely changeable. For all of their power, the Lawgivers are extremely mortal heroes. Each has the power to become a Prince of the Universe, but none may fully shed her humanity or become superhuman indefinitely. Each expenditure of Solar power requires effort, concentration, and exhausting expenditures of inner strength and spiritual energy. The Solars only come by such power through their own excellence, and indeed, each Charm is an expression of what each can naturally do, and each Charm’s cost is a reflection of what such tremendous power costs the mortal hero behind that power. Solars can bend the cosmos, truck casually with soul-shattering horrors, duel with gods, hurl boulders, and slay armies, but they do not exist in states which are casually supermortal. Their divinity is as apparent as the marks that blaze upon their brows, but their power is in fact derived from their mortality and their closeness to their own unchanging humanity. As the Unconquered Sun is an unchanging being of five phases, so too are the Solars an Exalt of five Castes broken into 25 Abilites—a human interpretation of the sun’s five aspects and dominions. 

No matter how they work at it, Solars can’t use their Charms to grow fanged mouths on their palms with which to drink the life-force of their enemies. A Solar may not permanently raise her strength such that she can effortlessly snap the mightiest oak, for her power is derived from effort. A Solar might shout loudly enough to shatter bones or wreath her fists in glorious Solar flame, but she cannot develop Charms to grant her raw command of the elements, a warped and demonic body, or other such strange powers; such feats require sorcery or the Evocations of puissant artifacts. 
# Limits
There are certain miracles that are beyond even the incredible might of the Solar Exalted. Solar Charms do not permit long-distance teleportation; though a Solar might outrace a horse or clear a river with a single mighty leap, she must actually travel where she wishes to go. Solar Charms cannot defy the flow of time, either to step backwards into the past or to skip forward into the future. Finally, Solar Charms cannot resurrect the dead. Indeed, no magic in the world of Exalted has ever been able to definitively restore true life to the deceased, though countless sorcerers and savants continue to attempt to defy this most cruel of mystical limitations