---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
Characters in Exalted are complex and multi-dimensional. The [[Intimacy]] system should be seen as an attempt to capture this depth and nuance, rather than as a mechanic for programming characters with a set social script. The more that players engage with the system from this perspective, the more it will help them in roleplaying interesting characters. As a way to facilitate this, starting characters begin with a minimum of four [[Intimacy|Intimacies]] including at least one Defining [[Intimacy]], but players shouldn’t be discouraged from taking more. While no hard mechanical rules require characters have a certain number of Ties or Principles, nor mandate minimum intensities, the Storyteller should keep in mind what these labels mean in terms of character definition. A complete absence of any Ties suggests a current state of total emotional detachment, while the absence of Principles suggests an apathy that precludes any goals, beliefs, or distinctive character traits. Some characters may occasionally experience these states, but they aren’t conducive to player characters. Also keep in mind that not everything needs to be an [[Intimacy]]—“I need to eat to avoid starvation” is a truism of most living things, not a character trait worthy of being enshrined in an [[Intimacy]], while sexual preference doesn’t necessarily need to be represented with an [[Intimacy]] to be meaningful. (See also [[THE RED RULE]], p. 222) 

The Storyteller should be mindful of extremely broad [[Intimacy|Intimacies]] such as a [[Intimacy|Principle]] of “I bow to no one” or “No compromise with those who oppose me.” While these may be legitimate for a few characters, their broad applicability makes them very powerful traits, and thus increases the incentive for players to take them at a higher intensity than is actually applicable to the way they play the character. Also, some [[Intimacy|Intimacies]] simply break the system, and should be disallowed entirely, such as [[Intimacy|Intimacies]] that are excessively vague or generic in a way that lets the player define their applicability (“Some people just rub me the wrong way,” as opposed to “Nothing’s weaker than a bully”), use exploitative wording to manipulate the system rather than trying to represent character traits (A [[Intimacy|Tie]] of hatred against “People trying to manipulate me in ways I don’t like”), or explicitly engage with system terminology (the [[Intimacy|Principle]] “I balk at social influence enhanced by Charms”). Similarly, a player might try to avoid letting other characters engage with him socially by not taking any [[Intimacy|Intimacies]] at all, treating them as mechanical weaknesses rather than character traits. To curtail such disruptive issues, the Storyteller may reassign the intensity of a valid-but-overplayed [[Intimacy]] if she notices that a player is not roleplaying his character in a way that makes sense given the current intensity of the [[Intimacy]], reword or clarify an abusively phrased [[Intimacy]], or assign an [[Intimacy]] to a character if it fits the way he’s being roleplayed—especially, but not only, if that character has no other [[Intimacy|Intimacies]].