---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
The Solar cannot be changed beyond her ability to represent the character concept implied by the ten prerequisites from which she derived this Charm. This means, literally, that if a Solar daiklave master who derived this Charm from ten Melee Charms is struck by an attack that would have transformed her into a cat, she is instead changed into a feline beastwoman, allowing her to continue to wield daiklaves and, by extension, to continue to function as a person and a Solar, using Charms, channeling Essence, and so on. Likewise, a legendary Solar courtesan struck by a curse that would wither away her beauty, drying her to a crone-like husk, might experience only a slight downgrade to her Appearance—an unprepossessing feature she can conceal, for example. Furthermore, multiple repurchases, stacking repurchases, and the Solar having a higher Essence rating than her attacker can reduce such effects to nothing or almost nothing when such effects should be completely ignored. In these instances, the Storyteller should give the Solar a temporary dice penalty or make her player roll a few damage dice and move on. Because there are many different such effects, the Storyteller has ample latitude to interpret the results. When in doubt, the following things should be considered: this Charm exists for the purpose of telling interesting stories. It is boring and disappointing if a Solar is slain by being turned to stone, and it is equally boring if the Solar runs no risk at all from a secret stone touch or granite-imbuing glance. With this Charm she is instead made obdurate; stony patches mar her skin, and her soak increases by three while her Dexterity is reduced by the same. Given seasons unanswered, this condition might worsen and cause her death, but the Solar at least has a chance to break the curse, manifesting her true destiny. Likewise, a character struck with the killing gaze of Balor might instead experience slow, continuous damage to her health track each time she is rolled into battle. Such characters face crushing adversity as a result of these curses, but may also derive interesting Storyteller-approved benefits from them, aside from the opportunity to explore their character in the face of such a deep and transformative crisis. This Charm may be repurchased for every ten different Charms the Solar knows, amplifying its effects. This Charm is also stackable; a Solar who purchases it off the back of ten Melee Charms may purchase it again by using ten different Melee Charms. In this instance, the Storyteller should further lessen any changes wrought to the Solar. Repurchasing this Charm while under the effects of an ongoing condition has no lessening effect on that condition, however.