---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
In each instance of altered evidence, the player is able to respond to the introduction or discovery of evidence, retroactively changing the narrative. This is not a Creation-time alteration, but rather a retroactive continuity of the Storyteller’s narrative or Investigation action results by another player. Literally, as a character discovers some evidence of your crime, you can pay contingency points to alter the evidence, changing what he found (even if that means he found nothing). Destroying evidence is different from erasing evidence; destroyed evidence may be reconstructed by various Charms. Erased evidence is treated as though your Solar carefully covered her tracks. Feel free to gloatingly describe how she outsmarted her pursuers by convincing an army of ants to right the blades of grass she walked over that day, or how she snatched up that single strand of hair before it could fall to the floor. Distorting evidence causes it to point at another character connected to the crime scene location. The Exalt’s player does not determine at whom it points; that determination is instead made by the player of the detective. If the only other character known to have visited the scene is the detective, the evidence will point to his guilt. This Charm models the Solar’s serious attention to detail and overqualification for mind-games. Each use should be depicted as the Lawgiver channeling a preternatural sense of preparedness and foresight and meditating on future plans to make her tactics flawless. The duration of each listed contingency is one instant, unless stated otherwise. The Exalt must know the Charms enhanced by contingencies in order to benefit from them. 