Personas are a tool developed by the master socialites of the Solar Exalted to more comfortably and effectively lead multiple lives. The Solar can use personas to maintain a number of different alliances, loyalties, and ways of thinking. She can use a persona to solve problems that are not suited to her natural disposition, and to more comfortably and invisibly ally herself with the enemies of her friends in order to learn their weaknesses. Though there are a few Charm-based exceptions, personas are not metaphysically different people from the Solar. The Solar’s masks, genders, and personalities are all entirely performative, and created through her social environment. Through her mastery of social skills, she is able to adapt to a situation so completely that her true self almost disappears. Such freedom and flexibility also has a few downsides:
- Personas cannot use Hundred-Faced Stranger to create their own personas. 
- Personas do not benefit from Supernal Abilities. 
- If a persona wishes to use a Charm that has an experience points cost, the experience is spent twice— from both the persona’s experience as well as the Solar’s. 
- When the Exalt uses Hundred-Faced Stranger to become a persona with different Charms than her own, any ongoing effects are terminated at the moment she changes, unless her persona also knows the Charm. This includes the effects of permanent Charms. 
- If the Solar and her persona share a Charm with a reset condition, use of the Charm by either character places it in a “down” state for both. Likewise, resetting it for one resets it for both. 
- Craft points earned by the Solar are shared with her personas, and craft points earned by her personas are shared with the Solar. Charms which award craft points over time—after sleeping, after a story ends— are only awarded once, no matter how many times the Solar purchases them across various personas. 
- Lastly, if the Solar enters into an agreement bound by the Eclipse oath anima power (p. 176), her persona is bound by it, and vice versa. Likewise, if the Solar is struck with a curse, she may not escape it by taking the guise of a persona. If the Exalt has been prevented from speaking certain knowledge by Corrupted Words, she can’t switch to a persona in order to speak her mind.