---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
The purpose of the Great Curse is to add drama and conflict to the player characters’ lives in a way that emulates the genres of epic poetry and sword and [[sorcery]] which Exalted draws inspiration from. [[Limit Break]] is the Solar Exalted’s equivalent to Achilles sulking in his tent when he is needed on the battlefield, Hercules slaying his family in a rage, or Elric of Melniboné being forced to kill by his cursed sword Stormbringer. As the Storyteller, you control much of this added conflict by choosing the manifestation of [[Limit Break]], as well as determining when they begin and end. Keep in mind the point of [[Limit Break]] is never to punish players for taking [[Limit]]-gaining actions, nor to sour players’ desire to play the characters they’ve made. Ultimately, the Great Curse should help serve to make your chronicle a story of flawed heroes and savage adventure. If the rules ever seem to be at odds with that, err on the side of making a more enjoyable story. 

When one of the player characters reaches 10 [[Limit]], try to either choose a [[Limit Break]] that will immediately produce dramatic results, or delay the onset of [[Limit Break]] until it will. Going into [[Berserk Anger]] in the middle of a crowded metropolis will obviously carry drastic consequences, but if the characters are wandering through desolate wasteland, it won’t be so interesting. It’s also important to consider what impact a [[Limit Break]] will have on a player’s investment in his character—forcing [[Chains of Honor]] on a silver-tongued scoundrel or [[Rampaging Avarice]] on a Solar who’s made a point of self-denial for the good of his circle has the potential for interesting character development, but also risks negating the player’s whole reason for creating that character in the first place. While the Great Curse can force a character into completely uncharacteristic acts, more often it tends to exaggerate personal quirks, flaws, or even virtues into dangerous exaggeration; a violent scoundrel is more likely to experience [[Berserk Anger]] than an even-tempered monk, while the monk is more likely to experience [[Chains of Honor]] than the scoundrel. When choosing a [[Limit Break|Virtue Flaw]], don’t try to invalidate what’s cool about a character, but try instead to set them up for dramatic moments and character development. If you’re uncertain of which [[Limit Break|Virtue Flaw]] to declare, ask the player