---
tags:
  - charm
  - Dragon-Blooded
  - source/dragon-book
Cost: 5m, 2wp
Mins: Ride 5, Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Wood
Duration: Until battle is joined
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[Blazing Charger Attack]]"
  - "[[Seizing-the-Reins Approach]]"
---
*Stampeding beasts follow the Dragon-Blood in an overwhelming charge, routing enemy formations and smashing through their fortifications.*
This Charm is a dramatic action to prepare for an upcoming battle by rounding up a herd of horses or other wild, ridable animals — even blundering yeddim. This is a series of ([[Charisma]] + [[Ride]]) rolls, which are treated as [[rally for numbers]] actions (Exalted, p. 209), building up the [[Magnitude Track|Magnitude]] of animals that the Dragon-Blood has gathered. Each roll takes five minutes of animal calls, handling, or impressive stunts to complete. Once the Dragon-Blood has built up enough [[Magnitude Track|Magnitude]] to form a [[Size]] 1 battle group, she may continue making [[rally]] rolls to increase the group’s [[Size]], up to a maximum of [[Size]] 3. Concealing the approach of this stampeding herd is impossible without large-scale magic. The herd isn’t treated as a battle group in combat. Instead, when the Dragon-Blood rolls [[Join Battle]], it stampedes across the battlefield, imposing a penalty equal to (its [[Size]]) on all enemy [[Join Battle]] rolls, before dispersing. Every enemy whose [[Join Battle]] roll is beaten by the Dragon-Blood’s takes decisive damage as the stampede tramples over them. She divides ([[Initiative]] + stampede’s [[Size]]) dice of bashing damage evenly among the victims (roundup), ignoring [[Hardness]]. Trivial opponents and battle groups instead take the full ([[Initiative]] + [[Size]]) damage roll, which doesn’t detract from the total divided among other enemies. This attack resets the Dragon-Blood to base [[Initiative]] once it’s completed. The Dragon-Blood may learn elemental variants of this Charm for three experience points each. While she’s in appropriate terrain, she may rouse that element’s natural perils instead of wild animals. She still rolls to build up its effective [[Size]] for determining the [[Join Battle]] penalty and total damage inflicted, but this represents the force of nature that follows her, growing stronger as she rides. Air: Riding through snow-covered land, the Dragon-Blood trails an avalanche behind her. Any enemy that takes decisive damage on the initial roll is hurled one range band away from the Dragon-Blood and falls prone. The numbing cold imposes a penalty equal to the avalanche’s [[Size]] on all movement rolls a damaged character makes until he receives medical treatment as a difficulty 3 ([[Intelligence]] + [[Medicine]]) roll. Earth: Charging across mountainsides or stony terrain, the Dragon-Blood unleashes a rockslide that follows in her wake. Any enemy that takes decisive damage on the initial roll is hurled one range band away from the Dragon-Blood and falls prone, covered in rubble. A buried character or one of his allies must succeed on a [[Strength]] 3 feat of strength at difficulty 3 to clear the rubble before he can attempt to rise from prone. Fire: Riding over dry grass or other parched foliage, the Dragon-Blood ignites a roaring grass fire that follows in her wake. A bonfire (4L/round, difficulty 5) ignites at the feet of each enemy that that takes decisive damage from the initial roll. At the Storyteller’s discretion, flammable scenery may also catch fire as long as no character is present in the same space. These fires burn until the end of the scene unless put out. Water: The Dragon-Blood may ride with a river, coastline, or similar body of water at her back, running along the riverbed until the river runs with her. As she Joins Battle, it changes its course to spill over onto the battlefield, positioned by the Storyteller to benefit the Dragon-Blooded. Its largest dimension is at least (Size/2, rounded up) range bands long, from a starting point determined by the Storyteller. Once the scene ends, the river slowly reverts to its original course.