---
tags:
  - evocation
Cost: —(3m, 1i)
Mins: Essence 2
Type: Permanent
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Permanent
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[ Aquatic Adventurer’s Spirit]]"
---
The Exalt calls the ocean’s floor home. She measures how long she can hold her breath in hours instead of rounds, and neither the cold nor pressure of the deep can harm or impede her. Furthermore, whenever she successfully dodges an attack underwater, she may spend three motes, one Initiative to move a single range band downward. Stone of the Vanisher (Water, Standard) Keywords: Steady When this cloudy gray stone is socketed in an attuned artifact, its bearer’s image fades like mist from pursuers’ minds. On any roll to investigate her, track her, or contest her efforts to go to ground, change the highest successful non-10 die to a 1. Bloodstone (Water, Greater) Keywords: Dependent, Manse-Born Socketed in an attuned artifact, this red-speckled green gem protects and purifies its bearer’s blood. She gains the Natural Immunity and Toxin Resistance merits (Exalted, pp. 164-165), and doubles 7s against nonmagical diseases and poisons. In addition, her wounds never get infected, nor do they bleed — even severed limbs won’t cause blood loss. Fighting-the-Tide Gemstone (Water, Greater) Keywords: None Pale streaks crisscross throughout this sea-green stone. When socketed in an attuned artifact weapon, its bearer is as indifferent as the tide to an opponent’s fury. The first time each round that she successfully parries an attack, she takes no onslaught penalty from that attack. Faerie-Ring Jewel (Wood, Standard) Keywords: Wild-Born Withinatwo-mileradiusofthismany-coloredpastelstone, fungi grow with far greater rapidity and vigor than normal. Mushrooms and toadstools alike grow thickly in every pasture and glade; fallen timber and abandoned houses become encrusted with shelf fungi, molds, and mildews, rotting away with unusual swiftness. Rolls to forage for fungi — whether for food, drugs, or poisons — gain double 9s. Gem of the Shield-Sister Tree (Wood, Standard) Keywords: None When this gray-dappled green orb is socketed in an attuned artifact, living vegetation twists and bends of its own accord to protect the bearer. When the bearer takes cover (Exalted, pp. 198-199) behind living vegetation, light cover protects as heavy, while heavy protects as full. Ivy-Hilt Gemstone (Wood, Standard) Keywords: None This black stone is shot through with interwoven green lines. When socketed in an attuned artifact weapon, the bearer can commit one mote to cause vines to grow from the weapon and cling to her fighting hand, raising the difficulty of disarm gambits against it by +2. Stone of the Emerald Rooster (Wood, Standard) Keywords: Steady Sunlightstrikesrainbowsfromthisgreenjewel.Itsbearer’s passions guide and strengthen her on her journeys. While traveling on a task related to a Major or Defining Intimacy, she needs no rest to regain Willpower each night. Stone of Resilient Bamboo (Wood, Standard) Keywords: None This stone gleams the pale green of young bamboo leaves. When its bearer sockets it in an attuned artifact and commits one mote, it helps shrug off minor injuries. She adds two to her soak, can parry lethal attacks unarmed without a stunt, and halves healing times for bashing damage. Gem of Incomparable Wellness (Wood, Greater) Keywords: Dependent, Linked This cluster of emerald crystals continually changes shape, with new crystals budding and subsuming the old. Endless vitality suffuses its bearer, mending her wounds with unnatural swiftness. If she commits three motes to the stone, she regains one bashing health level per ten minutes, one lethal health level per hour, and one aggravated health level per day. Fatal diseases or lethal deprivation, such as starvation, dehydration, or drowning, only render her unconscious. Even dismemberment or cremation merely fills her health track with lethal or aggravated damage, respectively, from which she will eventually regenerate. This power only terminates if the Exalt loses attunement to the stone, or if it becomes inert or is destroyed. Jewel of the Shining Heart (Solar, Standard) Keywords: None This golden stone transforms its bearer’s righteous passions into action. When attuned, the bearer chooses a Defining Intimacy and treats it as a relevant specialty for any action that upholds it, as long as it remains at Defining intensity. Once per story, she may switch to a different Defining Intimacy. Lantern-Soul Diamond (Solar, Standard) Keywords: Manse-born While this clear, colorless hearthstone is socketed in an attuned artifact, the Exalt can spend five minutes of meditation to funnel the entirety of her bonfire anima into its depths. Thus charged, the stone blazes with the colors of the Exalt’s anima, shedding light as brightly as any lantern. At any time, she may expend this charge either to raise her anima by one level, or to pay one level of anima as part of a Charm or Evocation cost. Jewel of Hero’s Panoply (Solar, Greater) Keywords: Dependent, Linked While this glittering white gem is socketed in an artifact, reduce that artifact’s attunement cost by two, to a minimum of one. Key of Mastery (Solar, Greater) Keywords: Dependent, Linked When a sorcerer places this diamond-bright jewel in an attuned hearthstone socket, she gains the opportunity to awaken the following Evocation: