---
tags:
  - evocation
Cost: 3m
Mins: Essence 1
Type: Reflexive
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: One scene
Prerequisite Charms:
  -  None
---
The Exalt is sheathed in a second skin as hard and glossy as polished marble. She gains three soak and Hardness 3. When she takes decisive damage, the stony shell flakes away as the Evocation ends. This Evocation may only be used once per scene. It can be reset by recovering from Initiative Crash. Gem of Crushing Might (Earth, Greater) Keywords: None When this piebald orb’s bearer sockets it in an attuned artifact weapon and commits one mote, it imbues her attacks with overwhelming force. She ignores two points of Hardness on her decisive attacks with that weapon. Spirit-Grounding Stone (Earth, Greater) Keywords: Wild-Born This gold-speckled brown stone abhors the evanescence of the spiritual world. All spirits that find themselves within one mile of the stone become material at no cost and cannot dematerialize, though Essence 4+ spirits may pay a Willpower point to remain immaterial while they remain in range. Ardor-Igniting Gemstone (Fire, Standard) Keywords: None This orange jewel glows brighter when its bearer seeks to share her passions with others. While socketed in an attuned artifact, if the Exalt attempts an inspire action while she is in the throes of the same emotion that she seeks to evoke, she gains two bonus dice. Gemstone of Shattering Force (Fire, Standard) Keywords: None A vermilion line bisects this gray-brown gemstone. Socketed in an attuned artifact, it magnifies the bearer’s knack for destruction, adding one bonus die to feats of destruction. If it’s set in a weapon that’s used to stunt a feat of demolition, the bonus die becomes an automatic success. Jewel of Swift-Strike (Fire, Standard) Keywords: None While this yellow gem is socketed in an attuned artifact weapon, the wearer rerolls one non-success on an attack roll if she moved one or more range bands immediately before attacking. Passion-Unbinding Stone (Fire, Standard) Keywords: Steady Within a mile of this sparkling amber jewel, folk struggle to master their passions. Oaths are casually sworn and as easily broken; strangers and spouses fall in and out of love; teahouses can barely clean up after each impromptu revel or brawl before the next begins. Inspire rolls receive an automatic success. Guile takes a −1 penalty when used to conceal emotions. Trance-Scorching Sardonyx (Fire, Standard) Keywords: Dependent When this striped red and black orb is socketed in an attuned artifact, its bearer can call upon its inner fire to burn away unnatural lethargy. She gains +2 Resolve against magical effects that induce sleep, apathy, forgetfulness, or other passive mental or emotional states. Gem of Perfect Mobility (Fire, Greater) Keywords: Dependent Tiny lights race through this coruscating crimson jewel. When placed in an attuned hearthstone socket, it grants the opportunity to awaken the following Evocations: