---
tags:
  - evocation
Cost: —
Mins: Essence 1
Type: Permanent
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Permanent
Prerequisite Charms:
  -  None
---
The sorcerer gains new insight into a spell of the Terrestrial Circle, imprinting its Essence upon the stone. The chosen spell provides all the benefits of a control spell for as long as the stone remains attuned. The sorcerer can switch to a different spell once per story. At Essence 3, the sorcerer can instead imprint a spell of the Celestial Circle. At Essence 5, she can choose a spell of the Solar Circle. Blood-Drinking Jewel (Abyssal, Greater) Keywords: Dependent This crimson gem fuels its bearer’s power with blood. When mounted in an attuned artifact weapon’s hearthstone socket, if the Exalt has awakened any Evocations for that artifact or any other hearthstones socketed therein, this hearthstone gains a pool of five motes, usable only to activate those Evocations. This pool begins empty and can only be filled by dealing decisive lethal damage to non-trivial opponents with the socketed weapon, gaining one mote per level of damage. Stone of Hatred (Abyssal, Greater) Keywords: None This red and black stone feels icy cold unless its bearer thinks of an enemy, at which point it turns unbearably hot. Socketed in an attuned artifact weapon, it focuses the bearer’s enmity; the weapon’s attacks deal aggravated damage to any opponent for whom the bearer holds a Major or Defining intimacy of hatred. Key to the Dream Palace (Lunar, Standard) Keywords: Linked One side of this black opal is round and smooth, the other a fantasia of minuscule turrets, domes, and spires. Everyone who’s touched the stone in the past day shares a collective dreamwhentheysleep.Withinthewallsofafabulousblack opalpalace,theylivedream-livesofunimaginableopulence and partake in diverse decadent diversions — dressing like princes, dining like queens, engaging in courtly dalliances and intrigues, perusing otherworldly lore meaningless in the real world. These dreams are experienced lucidly and recalled as clearly as waking life. The palace and its inhabitants are unaffected by dream-influencing magics less potent than Celestial or Solar Circle spells and workings. Mount-and-Rider Onyx (Lunar, Standard) Keywords: None This stone’s surface is a tangled interweaving of black and white. Socketed in an attuned artifact, it allows bearer and steed to fight as one. Increase the bearer’s mounted combat withering bonus (Exalted, p. 203) by one and increase the difficulty of unhorse gambits against her by one. Twin Crescent Stone (Lunar, Standard) Keywords: None While this moonstone is socketed in an attuned one-handed artifact weapon, the Exalt can create a single duplicate of the weapon from moonlight and shadow as a miscellaneous action. The duplicate has the same traits as the original, granting the benefits of dual wielding, but doesn’t have any of its magical effects. It dissolves if either it or the original is wielded by another. Jewel of the Rabbit’s Sword (Sidereal, Standard) Keywords: Wild-born This chartreuse gem’s facets seem to change in number and shape each time they’re viewed. The stone counters ill fate with luck; once per day, its bearer may spend one Willpower to reroll all 1s for a single non-extended action until no 1s remain. Exorcist’s Jewel (Sidereal, Greater) Keywords: None This white stone is speckled red, gold, and black. Mounted in an attuned hearthstone socket, it wards off spiritual possession, allowing the bearer to reject any such invasion of body or soul by spending one Willpower. Thus mounted, it also grants the opportunity to awaken the following Evocation: