---
tags:
  - evocation
Cost: 5m, 1wp
Mins: Essence 2
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Decisive-only
Duration: Instant
Prerequisite Charms:
  -  None
---
The jewel’s power can free another of possession with a gambit made using a weapon the hearthstone is socketed in, with difficulty equal to the possessing spirit’s (Essence). Success ejects the possessor and stuns it momentarily, inflicting a −3 penalty on all its dice pools until the bearer’s next turn. Seven Leaping Dragons Stone (Sidereal, Greater) Keywords: Manse-Born This gold-tinged orange jewel grants innate understanding of how Essence flows through martial stances and katas. While socketed in an attuned artifact, the bearer gains two Initiative when she uses a Form’s special activation rules to assume it reflexively. Stone of One Voice (Sidereal, Greater) Keywords: Steady Glimmering lines and arcs dance through this milk-blue stone. All humans within four miles of the stone find they possess the ability to speak and understand Old Realm, even if they lack the Lore or Occult prerequisite. This understanding is unconscious and automatic, though those who make the effort can learn the language permanently with time, as can children raised there. EX3 138 The Mnemon legion pushed Jiara’s army onto the defensive. Impressed that Perfect Soul commanded such a disciplined force, Mnemon Galanet surveyed their retreat. Even in defeat, they did not break before Mnemon’s troops and Exalted commanders. One Anathema interposed himself between Galanet and the retreating army as she advanced to cut them down as they fled. The Khidara heir’s battle-champion, Volfer, she recalled. Had she been on foot, she might have been afraid, for he had a fearsome reputation. However, she nestled within a thirty-foot suit of red jade armor and had decades of training and battlefield experience. The Anathema were on their back foot, fighting defensively; to send one man against a warstrider meant desperation. He swaggered forward and made a rude gesture upwards. Galanet turned her foot in the fuselage; the warstrider dug its heels in, turning up hills of dust around them. Together they poured forth fiery Essence, transforming bare earth into a molten hellscape. Flowing lava slew straggling infantry and made the Forsaken’s approach undesirable. He didn’t stop. No, she thought with a touch of bitterness, why would he? She swung her massive iron blade. The harness’ restraints and the warstrider’s bulk hampered her movements, but after years of practice, Galanet knew the blade’s width well enough to predict its path. Volfer pitched away from the strike. He rebounded from his dodge, plummeted towards the war-machine’s leg joint and dislocated it. The harness wrenched, the whole body lurching forward as the warstrider tumbled to one knee. Galanet loosed another torrent of flame down the sword that exploded into a wide circle. Over the fire’s roar echoed a cry of pain. Volfer burst from the flames — body now alight with brilliant Anathematic Essence — landed on the blade, and charged up its length. Galanet’s thoughts raced. Her other hand was occupied by the massive spiked shield she’d used to bull aside infantry, so knocking the Forsaken away was out of the question. She released the flames once more and this time watched them consume him. He spat the most profane curses. Dirt from her swelling anima gathered across the fuselage’s interior, flaking away from the leather straps of the harness as she moved. Winded, she blinked away mud-sweat as it dripped into her eyes. Outside, Volfer persisted, flesh charred and clothing in ashes. The demon-sword in his hands pulsed with an unholy light reflected in his maddened stare, its bruise-purple aura bleeding into the red-gold anima surrounding him. Absorbing that miasma, his flesh shifted and twisted, becoming bulkier and knotted with muscle. He let out an anguished war cry. He leaped from joint to joint until Galanet heard the heavy sound of a body hitting the war-machine’s torso. As Volfer appeared in the viewing slit, they made eye contact: his pupils were tiny dots, his face contorted into a furious sneer, his flesh blackened. The smell of burnt skin and hair rolled off of him. Galanet recoiled. In a thick voice, the Forsaken screamed something she didn’t comprehend and jammed his swollen arm through the slit, reaching for her, blood and sweat dripping from his fingertips. Cursing, he smashed his glowing, corrupt daiklave against the fuselage. Cracks spread through the jade. Clearing panic from her mind, Galanet tossed the massive sword aside and plucked Volfer off the warstrider. He writhed in her massive red grip. She spared a moment of satisfaction to smile at him before flinging him away. Snapping the leg joint back into place and levering the warstrider upright, Galanet looked across the smoldering field of dead and wounded. The Jiaran forces were retreating into rocky, wooded hills. It was too late to destroy them all. But she could still catch a few more. She strode off in pursuit. EX3 140 Chapter Five Warstriders Among the most powerful and awe-inspiring weapons of warfare ever forged by the Exalted in the First Age, warstriders are tremendous piloted armors, thirty feet tall or higher, built from one of the magical materials. Wonders even in their own time, a warstrider allows its operator to go into battle against titanic behemoths on even footing or trample over armies and fortifications like a tremendous siege machine. Compared to the scarce few forged in the Age of Sorrows, almost all warstriders were created in the First Age. In that time, the Solar Exalted worked with the Dragon-Blooded and the other Exalted, rather than fleeing from them, and together they attained the greatest heights of power ever attained by artifice. Most warstriders fielded in the modern day are Artifact 
-
-
-
-
-, categorized as noble warstriders by savants. Artifact N/A warstriders, or royal warstriders, are as rare as they are world-shakingly powerful. Creating a warstrider requires the Craft (First Age Artifice) Ability (Exalted, p. 243). A warstrider’s pilot must attune to it like any other artifact (Exalted, p. 594), committing fifteen motes to bond with its Essence. More powerful warstriders may carry steeper attunement costs. In addition, a warstrider requires a greater hearthstone be placed in one of its sockets to power it. Without the stone, it cannot operate at all. The pilot doesn’t regain motes from the hearthstone used to power the warstrider, but the hearthstone’s other effects remain active. Warstrider Evocations As powerful as a warstrider’s sheer physical might and incredible resilience are, the true extent of its puissance lies in its Evocations. Just as with daiklaves, every warstrider is a singular and legendary weapon of war, possessing unique Evocations reflecting its nature and history. Awakening these Evocations is the same as awakening them from any other artifact (Exalted, p. 611). Warstrider Evocations have all the incredible power appropriate to an artifact of their rating, but generally operate on a much larger scale than weapon or armor Evocations. These Evocations may manifest the metaphysical power of the warstrider’s Essence, like most Evocations do, or they can represent awakening ancillary warstrider systems such as mounted lightning ballistas, light-warping camouflage, or blue jade wings capable of flight. Piloting a Warstrider A warstrider’s pilot operates it from within a fuselage in its torso. In most warstriders still operational in the Second Age, the pilot dons a harness connected by leather straps to the warstrider’s frame. The harness mimics the pilot’s motions to control the warstrider’s arms and legs. Ancient warstriders constructed at the height of the First Age may have more elegant or esoteric control mechanisms — levitating crystals that orbit the pilot, complex control interfaces of solid light, liquid metal that molds itself to the pilot’s body — but still operate on the principle of emulating the pilot’s movements. As a result, taking an action while piloting a warstrider is essentially the same as taking that action normally. The pilot uses her own dice pools and may enhance her actions with Charms as usual. The exception to this are traits that the warstrider possesses independently of its pilot: its Strength, soak, Hardness, and damage track. She uses these in place of her own ratings, and cannot enhance them directly with magic: Increasing Strength Exercise cannot increase a warstrider’s Strength, nor can Spirit Strengthens the Skin increase its soak. However, the pilot can still apply magic that enhances Strengthbased rolls or defends against damage, as long as it doesn’t directly improve her Strength, soak, or Hardness ratings, or grant her bonus health levels. She uses her own Strength to determine the maximum dice she can add to a roll with Charms (Exalted, p. 251), or for any calculations involved in a Charm such as Fire and Stones Strike or Hammer on Iron Technique. Operating a warstrider is a complex and strenuous task. The pilot must tug and pull against her harness’s straps with every motion, imposing a −3 penalty on physical actions. The training required to master piloting is represented through two specialties: an Athletics specialty in operating warstriders, and a Lore specialty in warstriders. Completing this training allows the character to pilot the warstrider with no penalty. Piloting a warstrider is equivalent to wearing heavy armor for purposes of Martial Arts styles and other Charms incompatible with armor. Strapping into or leaving a warstrider’s fuselage is a lengthy process, much like donning or doffing armor (Exalted, p. 591). Strapping in to a warstrider requires at least one other character’s assistance, and takes ten minutes. Detaching from the fuselage takes only five minutes and can be done alone. Both can be rushed in desperate circumstances, with the usual effects. Whirlwind Armor-Donning Prana (Exalted, p. 376) or comparable magic reduces the time required for this to a single minute, or ten rounds in combat. Warstrider Strength Warstriders possess immense might, capable of scattering armies with a single attack or battering down fortress walls. However, drawing upon the full physical strength of a warstrider depends on the pilot’s own strength and expertise. Operating a warstrider at all requires a minimum of Strength 2, while accessing its full power requires both Strength 4+ and the two specialties of piloting training. A pilot treats her warstrider’s Strength rating as even higher for feats of strength (Exalted, p. 229), both for determining which feats she can attempt and for her dice pool. Pilot Strength Warstrider Strength Feats of Strength 2 5 10 3 6 12 4+ (untrained) 6 12 4+ (trained) 7 15 Soak, Hardness, and Damage A warstrider’s pilot uses her Initiative as usual for all purposes in combat. Her warstrider provides her with its own soak and Hardness ratings, which are treated as bonuses from armor. Most have soak 15, Hardness 10, although individual warstriders may have different values based on their design and purpose. A warstrider has its own damage track, completely separate from the pilot’s health track. Most have five −0 levels, five −1 levels, ten −2 levels, and ten −4 levels, though individual warstriders may be more or less durable. A warstrider’s pilot cannot be targeted by decisive attacks, nor does she take damage from environmental hazards, area of effect attacks, or similar perils; these damage the warstrider instead. An enemy can use the breach frame gambit (p. 143) to open a gap that allows him to attack the pilot. Warstriders are immune to poison, disease, and non-magical environmental hazards. Weaponry and Combat Weapons sized for warstrider use are immense: swords with twenty-foot blades, bows carved out of full-grown trees, or throwing darts the size of harpoons. Attacks made with warstrider weaponry are unblockable unless parried using an artifact weapon or defensive magic, or by a Legendary Size enemy. Although their armaments are rarely forged from the magical materials, they use artifact weapon traits to represent their massive scale (Exalted, p. 594). This has no attunement cost, but also confers no other benefits associated with artifact weaponry, such as hearthstone slots, innate magical powers, or Evocations. Artifact weapons large enough for warstriders to wield are incredibly rare, requiring vast amounts of magical materials to create. They use the same traits as normal artifact weapons, their Evocations providing the edge over mundane warstrider weaponry. A warstrider’s unarmed attacks aren’tconsideredbarehandedforpurposesofCharmssuch as Adamantine Fists of Battle. On each turn in combat, the pilot of a warstrider receives a special reflexive action called a devastating action. The devastating action may be used to reflexively make an attack against either an enemy battle group or all trivial opponents (Exalted, p. 208) within range of the pilot’s weapon. This doesn’t count as the pilot’s combat action for the round, allowing her to make another attack. The pilot may reflexively invoke one Simple-type Charm that creates an attack, such as Blazing Solar Bolt, with her devastating action. WARSTRIDERS AND CRIPPLING INJURIES A warstrider’s pilot can use the rules for accepting a crippling injury (Exalted, p. 201) to divert levels of decisive damage from her warstrider’s damage track by letting it disable one of the warstrider’s limbs, sensors, or ancillary systems. Doing so still counts against her once-per-story limit. Restoring a severed limb or damaged system is a superior repair project with difficulty 5, a goal number of 25 successes, and an interval of one day (Exalted, p. 242) by default. Mobility The massive tread of a warstrider’s legs is capable of covering far more ground than a person on foot. Each warstrider offers a Speed bonus on any combat movement rolls or tests of speed the pilot makes. The default Speed bonus is +2. Warstriders designed for scouting or mobility may have bonuses as high as +5, while heavier models may offer a lower bonus or none at all. In addition, warstriders don’t need to take a disengage action to move away from foes of human size or smaller. This never applies to battle groups. Outside of combat, if the Storyteller uses range bands to track movement or positioning, a warstrider is capable of crossingthreerangebandseachround.Forlongeroverland travel, a warstrider is capable of covering (50 + [Speed x 10]) miles in ten hours. Legendary Size A warstrider’s massive size confers overwhelming advantages in combat against any enemy that lacks Legendary Size. 
- Attacks made by smaller-sized enemies do not inflict onslaught penalties on the pilot’s Defense. Magically inflicted onslaught penalties still apply. 
- The pilot cannot be reduced below Initiative 1 by a witheringattackmadebyasmallercharacterunless it has a damage pool of 10+ dice even after subtracting the warstrider’s soak. The attack still awards the attacker the full amount of Initiative rolled. 
- Warstriders cannot take more decisive damage from a single attack made by a smaller character than the attacker’s (Strength + 3). Levels of damage added by magic don’t count against this limit. 
- Warstriders cannot be grappled by smaller enemies unless they use magic such as Dragon Coil Technique. Likewise, smaller foes require such power to resist the warstrider’s (Strength + [Brawl or Martial Arts]) rolls to establish a grapple’s duration. 
- A warstrider’s size makes it impossible to knock back with smashing attacks, and more difficult to send flying with magical attacks (Exalted, p. 274) 
- The pilot can engage other enemies with Legendary Size, such as tyrant lizards, on an equal footing. Neither one applies Legendary Size’s benefits against the other. Limitations of Scale The titanic size of a warstrider is a mighty boon, but also carries drawbacks. It takes a −4 penalty on any physical action that targets an object or character that’s human-sized or smaller, such as attacking a lone enemy, or attempting a feat of strength to force open a door without taking out the surrounding walls. The −4 penalty also applies on any Awareness-based rolls to notice characters or things of human size or smaller. Attempting Stealth in a warstrider is nighimpossible, subtracting four successes from the pilot’s roll. Warstriders created to be stealthy scouts or deadly assassination models typically have unique features or Evocations that mitigate this penalty. In addition, even the lightest warstrider weighs thousands of pounds. Its immense weight may cause it to sink into soft surfaces such as mud, be unable to cross over a bridge without breaking it, or face similar complications. Magic such as Graceful Crane Stance can bypass this limitation. Maintenance and Repairs A warstrider operating in the field requires considerable upkeep. To qualify to perform maintenance or repairs, a character must have Craft (First Age Artifice) 1+, which itself requires Craft (Artifacts) 5, Lore 5, Occult 5, and Terrestrial Circle Sorcery, making such savants extremely rare in the Second Age. Characters who lack access to First Age Artifice can attempt to perform upkeep using Craft (Artifacts), but at +3 difficulty. The specialized tools and materials needed to perform warstrider maintenance or repairs are a Resources 
-
-
-
- purchase, and fill a two-horse wagon or medium-sized workshop. For every ten hours of operation, a warstrider requires a roll to perform maintenance. This takes a single scene to complete, and is an (Intelligence + Craft) roll at a base difficulty of 3. If the warstrider has taken enough damage to incur wound penalties, the penalty’s value is added to the difficulty. If a pilot chooses to press on without the required maintenance, the warstrider takes a single die of decisive damage, which cannot be prevented by any means. Repairing a warstrider (Exalted, p. 242) clears levels of damage from its track. Repairing a single level of damage is a major project that costs silver, not white, craft points. The Craft roll’s difficulty and the time needed to complete repairs depends on the type of damage level being restored. Damage Level Difficulty Time −0 3 One hour −1 4 One day −2 5 Three days −4 6 One week A warstrider whose damage track reaches Incapacitated is rendered completely inoperable. Restoring it to function requires either a superior repair project (for five-dot warstriders) or a legendary repair project (for Artifact N/A warstriders) that costs white craft points. The extended action has difficulty 5, a goal number of 50 successes, and an interval of one week. This restores only the Incapacitated level, requiring further repairs to clear the damage track. Repairing damage to a warstrider doesn’t require a sorcerous working, unlike most First Age Artifice (Exalted, p. 243). However, restoring a ruined warstrider from a lost age to operational condition would require sorcerous workings as usual. Fighting Warstriders: Special Gambits A lone warrior facing off against a warstrider faces an almost insurmountable challenge if she chooses to directly engage it in combat. Withering and decisive attacks still work against them, but the significant defensive benefits they provide mean that simply building up to high Initiative and making a decisive attack won’t always be the best strategy. Unlike the gambits presented in the core (Exalted, p. 200), these custom gambits are designed specifically to oppose warstriders. Players should describe how their character enacts a particular gambit — whether this involves scaling the warstrider’s frame to sabotage it, using Athletics Charms to leap through the air and deliver blows with artifact weapons, turning the environment against the warstrider, or other tactics. The pilot or her allies may use magic such as Craftsman Needs No Tools to mend the effects of these gambits. Block Vision (difficulty 3): This gambit obscures the slots in a warstrider’s helm that allow its pilot to see, or the visual sensors of a more advanced warstrider. The pilot is effectively blinded, taking a −3 penalty on all actions that depend on vision. The pilot may use a miscellaneous action to clear the obstruction. Disable Arm (difficulty 5): This gambit targets one of a warstrider’s arms, temporarily disabling it in some fashion. The warstrider drops anything the disabled arm was holding. The pilot cannot move or use the disabled arm, and takes a −3 penalty on actions requiring both arms unless it still has two functioning arms. Restoring it to functionality is a miscellaneous action that costs 5 Initiative. Disable Leg (difficulty 6): This gambit knocks one of a warstrider’s legs off-balance or renders it unusable. Its pilot must succeed on a difficulty 5 (Dexterity + Athletics) roll or fall prone. Even if the pilot succeeds, he takes a −3 penalty on movement rolls while that leg remains disabled. The pilot can restore a leg’s function on his turn by paying 2 Initiative. This counts as his move action for the turn. If all of a warstrider’s legs are disabled, it automatically falls prone and cannot take move actions unless its pilot spends 5 Initiative and her entire turn to right the warstrider. Breach Frame (difficulty 9): This gambit pries open the armored plating that covers a warstrider’s fuselage (or otherwise breaches its frame), creating an opening through which the pilot can be directly attacked. For the rest of the scene, any character may pay one point of Initiative to make a decisive attack directly against the pilot. “I WANT ONE” Players that want to begin the game with a warstrider bought using character creation Merits should discuss their plans with both the Storyteller and the other players. If the Storyteller is planning to start the chronicle with courtly intrigue or a secret martial arts tournament, then having a warstrider gathering dust on the sidelines doesn’t help anyone. In a “Heroes wandering from town to town”-style game, a warstrider’s logistical issues will clash with the chronicle’s narrative structure. Storytellers, if this is the case, take that player’s interest in having a warstrider into account, and find a way to let them fulfill it later on in the chronicle. Talk with other players about sharing the investment a warstrider requires, and make sure taking one won’t detract from the rest of the table’s fun. Not only must it be purchased as a Merit, but it also requires a greater hearthstone to power it. Routine maintenance requires specialized equipment that can only be comfortably purchased with Resources 4+, as well as the skill of a character who either has Craft (First Age Artifice) or can overcome the steep penalty for not having it. Instead of trying to twist your character into being able to do all these things, let the other members of your Circle find ways that their character concepts can support your idea. All-Conquering Colossus (Orichalcum Warstrider, Artifact § 
-
-
-
-
-) Mirshaan the Immortal Chrysanthemum was counted among the greatest slayers of the enemies of the gods in the Divine Revolution, but found little satisfaction in the peace that followed. Yearning for the thrill of past battles, she swore an oath never to stay in one place until she’d slain every peril that still remained to the world. Many of Creation’s greatest lovers sought to win her heart, for she was ferocious and beautiful, yet none could dissuade her from her pursuit. She laughed at the thousand-page love poem of Arahant Ikal Orinaya, and her rebuke sent Intemperate Mongoose flying into a mountain when he thought he could impress her by stealing her kill. In the end, Mirshaan’s heart could only be conquered by Ulyana Thunder-Daughter, her Circle’s Twilight. Longing to be reunited with her Dawn, Ulyana devoted herself to the creation of All-Conquering Colossus, hoping that her gift could win back Mirshaan. The mighty warstrider is a walking fortress of orichalcum, its joints and other lightly armored segments reinforced with red jade. Every inch of its armor is inscribed with elegant Old Realm calligraphy — Ulyana’s prayers to Venus and Mars to protect her beloved. She completed her creation with black ichor drawn from the tomb of an enemy of the gods slain by Mirshaan, baptizing the warstrider with it to temper its armor unto invincibility. It took Ulyana decades to complete her masterpiece, and decades more to find her beloved Mirshaan while striding across the world in the Colossus. Finally they were reunited, but the Immortal Chrysanthemum did not recognize her Circlemate behind the warstrider’s helm, thinking it some new terror that had stumbled out of the Wyld to destroy Creation. They clashed in battle, and to their surprise, Mirshaan found herself unable to defeat this foe. By the second sword-stroke, she knew she could not win. By her third, she recognized Ulyana’s handiwork in All-Conquering Colossus. The battle ended in an embrace, and the two were wed. All-Conquering Colossus has wrestled with behemoths and trampled the strongholds of renegade god-kings. Mirshaan’s ceaseless urge to battle the foes of Creation is manifest in the divine might of its Evocations, while Ulyana’s devotion to her beloved is reflected by the warstrider’s unassailable defensive puissance. AllConquering Colossus was lost when the Fair Folk invaded Creation, piloted by a lone Chosen in a desperate last stand against an endless horde of nightmare monstrosities. Savants from the Realm have sought the lost warstrider, but the Wyld has yet to surrender its final resting place. Attunement: 20m Soak: 16; Hardness: 12 Damage track: −0x5/−1x10/−2x10/−4x10 Speed bonus: +0 Hearthstone slot(s): 3 Era: Wondrous Dawn Era Evocations of AllConquering Colossus All-Conquering Colossus grants its pilot 1 Initiative every time its Hardness negates the damage of a decisive attack. In addition, its pilot adds +3 Overwhelming on withering attacks against battle groups and enemies with Legendary Size.