Espionage, politics, and a sizable (if ill-disciplined) military.
# Fire That Makes the Shadow Strong
Armies can be starved or defeated. Strongholds can be sieged. Money can be stolen. Land can be conquered. Knowledge, though — knowledge cannot be defeated. Knowledge will always exist, as long as there as someone to know it. That’s what makes it House Sesus’ greatest weapon. A family of spymasters, assassins, and saboteurs, Sesus hides its strength in shadows until the time comes to burn bright. 
# Social Standing
The founder Sesus, child of the Scarlet Empress and her mortal consort Nellens, took quickly to the dangerous life of the courtier. House Chanos owes its destruction to Sesus’ own hand, and she claimed that fallen house’s ancestral seat as her own. Her children are as skilled as their progenitor — perhaps more so.
Sesus has the most elaborate spy network in the Realm next to the All-Seeing Eye, headed by the secret cabal of house elders called the Masked Council. By the time a child learns to walk, she’s started training in the games of Dynastic intrigue. Before entering primary school, she’s studied the fundamentals of subterfuge and tradecraft. By the time she enters secondary school, once she’s been sorted from the house’s chaff — those too slow-witted, guileless, weak-willed, soft-hearted, or principled for the espionage game — she’s begun reporting on the activities of her fellow classmates to a Dragon-Blooded handler working for the Masked Council. 
The other [[Scarlet Dynasty#Great Houses|Great Houses]] have little idea of the extent of Sesus’ intrigues, though it has never enjoyed a pristine reputation. Rumors of blasphemy, deceit, and vice follow all but the most upright Sesus scions, whether justified or not, and they’re seen as honorless and thuggish by the Realm’s other military houses. On the other hand, such is the charm of a gifted Sesus socialite or artist that her peers often disregard the rumors in her case, esteeming her all the higher for seeming to rise above her house’s disrepute.
# House Economics 
House Sesus’ military might and mastery of espionage enables it to claim the dragon’s share of trade opportunities in newly conquered satrapies, snatching opportunities out from under the claws of other houses. Centuries of intermarriage with House Cynis have brought many gifted merchants and financiers into the house, offering commercial acumen that Sesus has made its own. This has made Sesus a fiscal powerhouse competitive with its rival House Nellens, but the prodigious sums expended in funding covert operations — and in pursuit of its scions’ vices — keep it from equaling the likes of House Ragara.
House Sesus makes a useful knife in the back of interests opposed to the Realm’s in the Threshold, and profits nicely thereby. The [[Guild]] finds itself confronted with an army of commercial spies and saboteurs, and Sesus continually blocks their intrusion into Realm affairs. Its house legions serve as mercenaries for Threshold warlords and petty despots, and occasionally compete with [[Guild]] mercenaries to offer their services in brushfire wars. 
# House Military
House Sesus controls one of the largest militaries in the Realm. They were among the three houses permitted to maintain legions before the Empress vanished, and managed to bring four Imperial legions under their control, bringing their total to seven. 
Even at their best, the Sesus house legions were never as well-honed as those of Tepet and Cathak, and their new once-Imperial legions are no better. But Sesus officers are best known not for discipline nor for compendious knowledge of The Thousand Correct Actions, but for dirty tricks — assassination, false intelligence, subversion, and the like. 
House Sesus can’t quite match House Cathak’s army in sheer numbers, and it doesn’t like its odds against Cathak’s better-trained legions in a head-on fight. Instead, it seeks protection and alliance with Cynis, and plays other houses against each other, hoping to whittle down the other [[Scarlet Dynasty#Great Houses|Great Houses]]’ militaries while building up its own.
# Enemies and Alliances
The Blood of the Dragons is exceptionally strong in House Sesus, rivaling even Mnemon and Cynis, with whom the house’s bloodline becomes more and more entwined through marriage. Other houses, though they don’t like or trust Sesus, will marry their daughters into the line in hopes of securing more Dragon- Blooded children.
House Cynis is Sesus’ strongest tie, bound by debts as well as blood. Members of the two houses frequently take each other as companions, lovers, and spouses, and the result is a blissful (if debauched) relationship. Cynis provides the exotic delicacies, intoxicants, and companions that Sesus scions so crave. In exchange, Sesus military forces protect Cynis interests. However, when it comes to their covert pursuits, the relationship between Sesus spymasters and Cynis blackmailers is complex, manipulative, and distrustful. 
Sesus is likewise entangled with House Mnemon by blood, marrying into that house as often as Cynis. Politically, however, their relationship is strained at best. While the more romantic or iconoclastic Mnemons find the Sesuses alluring, the upright Immaculate streak in House Mnemon causes most to look down on the spymaster house. Moreover, Mnemon herself has her gaze set on the Scarlet Throne, and the Sesus elders know she sees them as a potential obstacle to her accession. 
Sesus’ greatest enemy was House Tepet. House Sesus helped engineer the Tepet legions’ downfall and profited from claiming satrapies Tepet could no longer control. Sesus hasn’t moved against Tepet since; what more is left to do? 
The house now focuses its ire on House Cathak and House Nellens. House Cathak is a military rival. Sesus resents the Cathaks for their military might and would like nothing more than to ruin them as thoroughly as Tepet. House Sesus despises House Nellens as thin-blooded upstarts whose very name — taken from Sesus’ father — insults the Sesus lineage. 
House Sesus is one of the few Great Houses aware that House Iselsi is still active. They keep close tabs on any Iselsi agents they can identify. 
# Major Holdings
See [[Realm Holdings]].
House Sesus’ seat is the Palace of Burning Wind in Chanos Prefecture. The chill, rainswept city of Chanos is among the northern Blessed Isle’s most c hapter two: the great houses important ports, and home to the oceangoing Air Fleet of the Imperial Navy. Relations with House Peleps are prickly; the Sesuses maintain a military presence against the threat of a decapitating strike against their house by the ever-present Imperial marines. 
Ventus Prefecture, to the west of Chanos, is even more rugged and wild. Ventus winters are fierce, and travelers without adequate protection risk dying of exposure. The prefecture’s saving graces include lumber, furs, and herbs gathered from the wooded highlands of the Skyhewn Mountains, and ores extracted from mines among the icy peaks. Among those peaks stands the mountaintop gaol Ice-Above-the-Water, used to house dangerous criminals, political prisoners, rebellious mortal nobles, and other undesirables. 
At the far end of the Skyhewn Mountains from Ice- Above-the-Water stands the lavish palace-manse Silken Diamond. Here, Sesus scions can let their hair down in luxury, safety, and privacy. But the manse also doubles as the house’s spy-training academy. In hidden chambers deep within the mountain, vacationing Sesuses meet as master and student to practice every aspect of tradecraft and to master devious schools of martial arts. 
Off the western coast of the Blessed Isle, amid the Tongma Archipelago, rises the Isle of Smoke. Not actually a single island, but a series of smaller ones divided by shallow channels of ocean water, the atoll is constantly shrouded in a thick white fog that smells vaguely of charred cedar. It’s here that House Sesus trains its best legionary officers and naval captains. Mock battlegrounds, obstacle courses, and target ranges dominate the Isle of Smoke. A small village sits on the largest islet, with housing for trainees, visiting Dynasts, and the crew of slaves and laborers that maintain this vital training facility. 
Saltbreak is a Tepet satrapy on paper, but it all but belongs to House Sesus. The coastal Northern nation thrives off the White Sea whaling trade, paying its tribute to the Realm in meat, oil, scrimshaw, and ambergris, along with mined diamonds, silver, and copper. Since the downfall of the Tepet legions, the house has been forced to withdraw most of its Saltbreak garrison back to the Blessed Isle, and Sesus has been more than glad to “reinforce” the satrapy in exchange for an inordinate share of its tributes. Saltbreak’s satrap has sent furious missives to the Deliberative over this illegal practice, but the other [[Scarlet Dynasty#Great Houses|Great Houses]] have been willing to turn a blind eye in exchange for Sesus shouldering debts that House Tepet can no longer repay. However, Sesus shows signs of reneging on these debts, which may ignite a firestorm of Dynastic power plays.
# The Masked Council
The Masked Council coordinates and controls House Sesus’ espionage network through layers upon layers of misdirection. Sesus scions at the lowest level don’t receive instructions directly from the council; some don’t even know that it exists until they’ve been serving it for years. Instead, they report to handlers, seasoned Sesus spies and intelligencers who provide assignments and ensure that success is well-coordinated. The handlers, in turn, report to the house’s nine spymasters, each of whom is the trusted and handpicked agent of a single member of the Masked Council. The Masked Council itself is made up of nine Sesus elders — at least, presumably. The council meets in namesake anonymity, allowing them to coordinate the house’s intelligence network while ensuring that no one member knows the activities or identities of all of its spies. Gossip concerning the identities of the Masked Councilors is a frequent pastime within the network; most agree that at least one member is the assassin responsible for a spree of poisonings among the Deliberative and the ministries of the Thousand Scales, while signs point to the presence of at least one demonologist on the council. The only way to join the council is to accept the mask of a member who wishes to retire. With it comes that elder’s personal spymaster and the portion of the Sesus intelligence network under the elder’s control.