Once-great house of warriors, now on the brink of collapse thanks to one enormous defeat (and betrayal).
# Air Stained by the Blood of Legions 
House Tepet is a house of heroes, born from the Scarlet Empress’ blood, but named for her consort Tepet. He was her enemy before he was her lover, a warrior-poet and heir to a fallen Shogunate kingdom that took up arms against her early in her reign. He sought to prove his claim as shogun through conquest of the Imperial City, and asked only that the Scarlet Empress spare his soldiers after he failed. Impressed by Tepet’s bravery, strategic insight, and unshakable honor, she took him as her consort instead, and adopted his kin into the Realm. In time, she elevated his family line into a Great House with him at its head.  
The house’s martial triumphs stand testament to the Empress’ wisdom. Its Melaist traditions and spiritual practices were passed down from their founder, teaching that the warrior’s path is the road to enlightenment. The house’s scions strive not only for strength, but excellence, distinguishing themselves from Dynastic peers through military leadership. The Tepet legions were deemed mightiest in the Realm, rivaling even House Cathak’s and the Imperial legions themselves, and celebrated for defeating many of the Empress’ greatest foes. When they marched against the Anathema called the Bull of the North three years ago, they expected another shining victory. Instead they suffered a devastating defeat, losing many of their greatest heroes and a full quarter of their Dragon-Blooded scions.  
Any respect owed House Tepet died with its legions. Now, the idiot Tepet Fokuf sits as regent, a cruel reminder of the house’s chances at the throne. Defeat has left them weak; that weakness hangs over the house like a curse. Many await the house’s fall, like Manosque or Akiyo before it. Others sympathize with House Tepet, but sympathy begets no alliances. Taking a Tepet husband is akin to taking in a mangy stray; marrying into the house incites wild rumors of covered-up scandals or hidden depravities. 
Raised from childhood expecting to attain positions of power and martial glory, House Tepet’s scions now belong to a house that might not exist tomorrow. They face this perpetual doomsday as their bloodline always has: as warriors.
# House Economics 
The Tepet legions were the house’s greatest source of wealth. The Empress rewarded House Tepet for imposing peace on unruly satrapies and securing the Realm’s Northern holdings with a sizable stipend, the dragon’s share of which was invested in the legions’ upkeep and expansion.  
House Tepet never fielded its legions as mercenaries, but their prowess was famed across Creation. Tepet generals and strategists charged hinterland nations heavily to train, arm, and advise their armies. The ghost-faced warriors of Ithen marched with the Imperial legions against the Weeping Princes; the traitorous Five Thrones Hearth was brought down by Tepet-trained resistance fighters within their own capital; Mogg the Devourer and her crocodilefolk brood were turned back by the Devil Quag marsh tribes before they reached the Empress’ soil.  
Now, House Tepet’s economy is in ruin. Their stipend has been slashed to a pittance. The [[Scarlet Dynasty#Great Houses|Great Houses]] divided Tepet’s most valuable satrapies up amongst themselves in exchange for debts forgiven or under the pretense of compensating for Tepet’s military absence. While House Tepet still administers these satrapies on paper, their tributes are reaped by other houses, chiefly Sesus and Ragara. Of Tepet’s holdings, only Medo still pays their tribute of janissaries, largely because of satrap Tepet Niruz’s bloody-minded persistence. The rest have fallen to other houses, who mistakenly believe the mighty warriors subdued by the Tepet legions have lost their will to resist. 
House Tepet made few investments in non-military ventures. When the cost of maintaining its legions rose higher than its stipend could support, it resorted to taking sizable loans and conceding lucrative enterprises to other houses. The few it still controls include metal-works, silk farms, and almost-exhausted mines of marble, gems, and jade. House Tepet clings desperately to these, knowing that if they’re lost, so is the house. 
# House Military
Tepet scions strive to emulate the mythical warrior- hero Mela in their earliest childhood sparring bouts. They’re trained in weaponry from an early age, often by mortal veterans who served under their mother or an aunt. A Tepet learns to read from the pages of The Thousand Correct Actions, and trains for command through conducting war games and riding alongside older relatives. A Tepet formally concludes her childhood study of war when she chooses a code of honor exemplifying her warrior’s path — whether an extant code or one of her own devising. Many aspire to the house’s valor and selflessness, but a warrior’s code is ultimately hers to choose. 
Once a Tepet chooses her code, it’s not enough to simply fight — she must lead. She’s expected to epitomize her code through martial attainments, inspiring her soldiers with her virtue just as Mela illustrates the nature of the ideal warrior to the Dragon-Blooded. Tepet parents once put considerable effort into securing their child an officer’s rank in the house legions or the Imperial legions when a position opened. 
The Battle of Futile Blood left House Tepet only half a legion’s worth of rank and file soldiers, and fewer officers. When the [[Scarlet Dynasty#Great Houses|Great Houses]] partitioned the legions, they salted the wound by burdening Tepet with the Vermilion (or “Red-Piss”) Legion, an army of bandits, criminals, and drunkards. Only House Cathak objected, respecting the prowess of Tepet’s leaders enough to recognize the threat posed by even a single legion.
Command of the Red-Piss Legion was given to Tepet Ejava, the Roseblack. Once an Imperial legion officer, she resigned that commission to serve her house. Under the Roseblack’s leadership and training, the Red-Piss Legion has hunted pirates, subdued rebellions in the few remaining Tepet satrapies, and fought the mindless puppets of Kejiza the Centipede Witch. Outmatched by the other houses’ sheer numbers, it may yet be House Tepet’s salvation.
# House Culture
## Ancient Ways
House Tepet follows a martial tradition older than the Realm, preserving spiritual disciplines of the Shogunate lost in other histories. The two most prominent of these are the sublime armigers and the yamabushi. Its sublime armigers draw power from the history and legacy of House Tepet’s heirlooms, taking up a revere ancestor’s legendary artifact in emulation of her virtues. Yamabushi scout ahead of legions on the march, striking pacts with local gods to secure strategic advantages. Most armigers and yamabushi served within the Tepet legions, leaving few surviving practitioners.
## Many Paths to Honour
Tepet children are raised as warriors, but aren’t forced into military service. A sizable minority seek other vocations — bureaucrats, artisans, savants, sorcerers. There’s no shame in this, so long as they aspire to preeminence, but their kin will always hold them to a warrior’s standards. A poet earns acclaim if her words command the hearts of disciples, but even the most puissant sorcerer invites disdain if his triumphs come without honour and leadership. Since the fall of the Tepet legions, many of the house’s most prominent scions are those who turned their talents to vocations outside the military, whose efforts to secure the house’s future have won them acclaim approaching that of its fallen war heroes. 