## The All-Seeing Eye
Though no official body exists to represent the Empress' spy network, its existence is an open secret. Strictly the oldest organisation leading the realm (unless you count [[#The Immaculate Order]]), it is held accountable to and by the Empress and no one else. 

The Eye maintains an informal structure of semi-independent cells, usually having fewer than 7 *agents* at any one time, and each led by a *handler*. These may be Dragon-Blooded, but a good number are in fact mortal sorcerers. Handlers give field orders, and filter information back to *intelligencers*, who theoretically report directly to the Empress, yet remain entirely independent of each other. Agents are expected to be entirely self-sufficient, but many make use of a web of assets, who are not official members of the Eye and should not be aware of who it is that they work for. Intelligencers are hand-selected by the Empress, and they recruit their own handlers. Handlers recruit agents by having them find a token of the Lidless Eye (the secret symbol of the agency) and watching them closely to ensure they tell no one of it. Those that do tell are killed, leading to the popular conception that the symbol is an assassination mark. The Eye maintains this state of affairs, yet takes steps to punish the thieves and murderers who appropriate their symbol to escape blame.

In practice, there are some acts of the All-Seeing Eye that the other [[Hierarchy of the Realm#Imperial Organs|organs]] have come to rely upon, coordinating the [[Wild Hunt]] is the most high-profile of these. Partially toward this end, the Eye works throughout the Realm and satrapies, and maintains an invasive presence in the [[Scavenger Lands]], coming into direct conflict with the rangers of [[Lookshy]]'s General Staff, as well as [[Guild]] agents and other secret societies.

Since the Empress' disappearance, the All-Seeing Eye lacks its lynchpin. Agents and handlers can go to ground, but without funds or direction, the intelligencers struggle to maintain their hold on their own agents, and the flow of information sputters. Many have resorted to reporting to the head of the [[#Imperial Treasury]], but others have gone their own way, even setting up their own network or provincial enclave, and the lack of cohesion threatens the whole.