---
tags:
  - charm
  - Solar
  - source/solar-miracles-book
Cost: 10m
Mins: Presence 5, Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Indefinite
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[Favor-Conferring Prana]]"
---
The Lawgiver may confer the power of divinity upon a mortal subordinate, allowing them to taste the power of the Exalted. The Solar touches the subject and uses this Charm. They feel the charge of Solar [[Essence]], and their mind is spiritually opened for just a moment, long enough for them to hear the prayers of the Solar’s cult, like the flutterings of moths. As long as the Exalt keeps this Charm committed, the target may draw [[Willpower]] from the Solar’s cult. The subject also gains three specific spirit [[Charms]] — two minor miracles, and one major miracle — that fit their most significant Principles. Any time they use the cult-derived point of [[Willpower]] to enhance one of their dice rolls to uphold or defend one of their Intimacies, the prayers of the cult are channeled into them for a moment, giving them the [[Essence]] they need to perform the Charm for the Charm’s duration. This does not grant the mortal an [[Essence]] pool, but allows them to sustain divine, transformative power in accordance with the divinity conferred to them by the Solar and the mystic power generated by her worshipers. The subject loses access to these miracles if the Solar ends her commitment to this Charm. As long as the Solar is continually expanding her cult through overt and subtle miracles, the [[Willpower]] her subject draws from the Solar’s cult does not diminish the reservoir of worship ([[Willpower]]) the Solar herself draws upon.

### On Divinity-Conferring Touch (Celestial Exaltation Method)

The backer wanted a Charm to uplift his mortal followers with divine status and power. It should be noted that players and Storytellers should work out the details of what kind of spirit [[Charms]] should be conferred to the subject in advance. For one who wishes to spy on the Solar’s enemies, thereby upholding a Principle of belief in the Solar’s right to rule, the subject’s major miracle could be something like “Creeping Willow Meditation” in which her flesh becomes as bark and gnarled wood and she winds herself around a tree, melding with it so that she goes completely unnoticed in the forest where conspirators are known to meet. A minor miracle called “Sweet Ivy’s Bliss” would allow her to inflict sudden plant-based toxic necrosis in the skin of someone she touched — for example, if one of the conspirators confronted her as she was leaving the woods. Backer: Ross Ramsay 