---
tags:
  - charm
  - Sidereal
Cost: 5m, 1wp
Mins: Larceny 5, Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Shaping (Fate)
Duration: Indefinite
Prerequisite Charms:
  - Any ten Larceny Charms
---
The Sidereal nails a prayer strip bearing the Scripture of the Savory Maiden to the air in an effulgence of emerald light, invoking a pact older than humanity between Jupiter and Chaos. The Sidereal pledges someone she’s interacted with in the last day as an offering to the Wyld, rolling (Manipulation + Larceny) against his Resolve. He sees the prayer strip through the Sidereal’s eyes in this instant, glimpsing the source of the suffering that is to come, though he does not yet realize this. If the Sidereal succeeds, the Wyld relinquishes territory back to Creation in exchange for this tribute. As long as there’s any Wyld within (Essence x2) miles of the prayer strip, (Essence x10) squares miles of bordermarches will revert to Creation each month, or that many square miles of middlemarches diminish to bordermarches. Deep Wyld is unaffected. The restored land reverts to whatever form it had before it was absorbed into the Wyld, though potentially marked by the transformation. Once there’s no Wyld left within this Charm’s range, it ends. In exchange for this, the offered character is marked for the Wyld’s attention, no matter how far he may roam. He suffers −2 Resolve against Shaping and Psyche effects used by fae and +1 target number on against such magic. Fae are drawn to him from miles away; even in regions with no significant Wyld presence, he can expect to encounter hostile fae at least once a month: rapacious Fair Folk, swarms of silverwights, mutated beasts, etc. Near bordermarches and other places were faeries congregate, attacks become more frequent. The Storyteller may handle this narratively for Storyteller character; for player characters, such encounters should occur when they’d help advance or provide a needed break in a narrative. A tribute can piece together the nature of the curse that afflicts him with an extended (Intelligence + Occult) roll, as can other characters who’ve personally experienced its manifestations. It has a goal number of 10 and a one-month interval. The difficulty for interval rolls begins at 7 and drops by one with each subsequent interval, minimum 3. Success reveals that the curse can be thwarted by destroying the prayer strip; succeeding within the first five intervals reveals the precise location of the prayer strip as well. Only the cursed character can destroy the prayer strip. He can tear it from the air to which it’s affixed with a feat of demolition that requires Strength 5 or disturb the pact sealed by the prayer strip with an (Intelligence + Occult) roll. Both have difficulty 7. In combat, it can be destroyed with a difficulty 8 gambit against Defense 7. If he fails such a roll, he can’t attempt to destroy the prayer strip again by any means for a month. Reset: Once per story.