---
tags:
  - source/abyssal-book
  - source/Abyssal-Book
---
Necromancy is divided into three circles, each a dramatic increase in power and rarity from the one before. 
The First Circle of necromancy — more poetically, the Ivory Circle — allows its practitioner to reshape reality in ways that are limited and local. It spells lay potent curses on single foes, bind and enchant lesser ghosts, and conjure ghostly perils like pyreflame and prayer-ash. Its most common practitioners are those puissant ghosts with necromantic talent; for them, initiation is a road to power and status. A few gods and other spirits likewise have the talent, usually because their nature is touched with death. 
The Second Circle, known as the Shadow Circle, is far mightier, and orders of magnitude more uncommon. Its spells reshape battlefields, curse families and towns, and bring all but the greatest ghosts to heel. Those rare ghosts with such talent become true powerbrokers of the Underworld, matched for millennia only by Solar and Lunar necromancers and perhaps a handful of exceptional spirits. 
The Third Circle, the Void Circle, is the prerogative of the [[Deathlords]] and Abyssals. It has the power to topple citadels, blight city-states, and endow the dead with terrible might. With only a scant few masters throughout history, its true limits remain enigmatic.
# Purchasing Necromancy
Exalted types published before Abyssals can access necromancy by purchasing necromantic initiation Charms with the same prerequisites as their sorcerous equivalents. Like sorcery, these Charms provide a free spell and necromantic shaping ritual. 
The Solar and Lunar Exalted can both learn Ivory Circle and [[Shadow Circle necromancy]]. Sidereals can only learn Ivory Circle. The Dragon-Blooded and most Exigents are limited to learning only either [[Ivory Circle necromancy]] or [[Charms/Dragon-Blooded/Occult/Terrestrial Circle Sorcery|Emerald Circle sorcery]].
# Necromancy and Sorcery
Necromancy and sorcery exert similar forces, but are based on separate metaphysical principles. *Necromancers can learn most sorcerous spells*, though they are often distorted through the lens of the Underworld when purchased in this manner, drawing on its equivalent elements and powers — Cirrus Skiff conjures a wisp of pyre-smoke, Incomparable Body Arsenal becomes a carapace of sharpened bone, and Torrential Cascade summons an inky tidal wave from the Sea of Shadows. Other spells like Blood Lash require no adaptation at all, revealing the intersecting themes between necromancy and sorcery. 
There are differences, however. The most notable is that *necromancy can’t be used to summon Creation’s elementals or the demons of Malfeas*; the former are anathema to the Essence of the Underworld, and the latter swore their oaths of submission to the Exalted, not the dead. *Necromancy is also unable to replicate spells of true healing or growth, like Benediction of Archgenesis* (Exalted, p. 480). 
In return, necromancy grants access to a wide array of unique spells. These spells are especially keen at creating, summoning, and manipulating the dead, exploiting the nature of the Underworld and shadowlands, laying deathly curses, and other bleak magics. *If a spell creates or draws on the five elements, its necromantic equivalent instead manifests phantasmal phenomena of the Underworld*. 
Some savants pursue both sorcery and necromancy, gaining access to the unique benefits of each appropriate to the circles they’ve mastered. Even those who study both arts find themselves drawn to particular magics may have only a single control spell at the first, second, or third circle. A character who learns a control spell through [[Charms/Sidereals/House of Secrets/Occult/Terrestrial Circle Sorcery]] who later initiates into [[Ivory Circle Necromancy]] may choose a new control spell from her necromantic ones, but this replaces her older choice. 
In all other respects, sorcery and necromancy interact as if they were parallel. *Necromancy can be used to distort sorcery and vice-versa*. Unless otherwise specified, necromantic and sorcerous motes can be spent interchangeably. Likewise, [[Ivory Circle Necromancy]] can be used instead of [[Charms/Sidereals/House of Secrets/Occult/Terrestrial Circle Sorcery]] to to learn [[Craft]] (First Age Artifice), and [[necromantic workings]] can be used to create First Age artifice.
# Initiation
Like [[Rules Reference/Sorcery/Sorcery|Sorcery]], would-be necromancers must seek out initiation into the bleak arts. Hundreds of paths to power exist, with countless others waiting to be innovated or discovered. Each initiation comes with its own shaping rituals, special ways to gather necromantic motes.

# Thaumaturgy
Most of the people that Creation calls “necromancer” aren’t initiates of the Ivory Circle proper, but those who’ve mastered certain thaumaturgical rites that allow them to conjure, animate, bind, and banish the dead. These are learned like any other thaumaturgical rituals (Exalted, p. 490). Some sample thaumaturgical necromancy might include: 
[[Breath of Unlife]]
[[Final Testament]]
[[Tear-Stained Talisman]]