---
tags:
  - source/abyssal-book
---
Like sorcery, necromancy goes beyond spells to encompass large, unique miracles known as workings — the personal passion-projects of necromantic savants, ranging from creating unique undead monstrosities to laying bespoke curses on hated foes and rebellious kingdoms. These workings always draw upon the themes of death, the Underworld, and other powers invoked by necromancy, but they are capable of reshaping any realm to reflect these dark influences. Necromantic workings use the rules for their [[Sorcerous Workings|sorcerous equivalents]] (Exalted, p. 483), with a few exceptions. Canny necromancers can benefit from [[sacrifices]] to empower their magic, but also suffer additional complications — especially when undertaking workings in Creation.
# Complications
Necromancy exists in the friction between the Underworld’s ossified Essence and the twisting, churning, warping torment of the Neverborn. This makes its magic particularly willful and onerous to shape, prone to unpredictable results. All failed working rolls result in a complication, not just botches. Example necromantic complications might include: 
- Environmental corruption, rendering nearby plants toxic, water unpotable, or even transforming prey animals into vicious predators. 
- Warped purpose, introducing quirks to the working that are especially onerous or dangerous. A “blessing” to ensure that all who die within a village return as ghosts might disfigure their phantom forms, or inflict the living with a thirst for warm blood in order to sustain their eligibility for this new afterlife. These changes never compromise the core intention and purpose of the working, only introduce new wrinkles for the necromancer to engage with. 
- The working awakens to a dimly malicious sapience, gaining the tiniest sliver of its own will. It bends the working’s power to haunt creatures under its aegis in ways that the necromancer neither intended nor controls. 
- In general, complications can also recreate the phenomena of the [[Limit#Abyssals|Abyssal’s Great Curse]] (p. XX), except for Thralldom.
## Creation's Bane
Necromancy always inflicts an additional complication on workings to affect [[Creation]] and other realms beyond the [[Underworld]], even without a failed roll. Necromancers may mitigate these deleterious effects by foregoing one [[Sorcerous Workings#Means|Means]] for an Ivory Circle working, two for a Shadow Circle working, or three for a Void Circle working. Even then, the complication is not wholly gone, but remains cosmetic — a working to protect a forest with bone-lion guardians makes the trees harmlessly shed blood instead of sap, or a working to transform a mortal into a Ghost-Blooded champion causes their skin to crack like parched earth.
# Ambition
Many workings can draw on the [[Sorcerous Workings#Ambition|same guidance as sorcery when determining Ambition]] — granting mutations to a willing subject might be Ivory Circle Ambition 2, while spreading those mutations across an entire ecosystem might be Shadow Circle Ambition 2. Given its proficiency with the powers of death, though, necromancy has a much easier time creating and manipulating the undead, spreading deathly influence, and inflicting curses, often resulting in a lower Ambition level compared to sorcerous equivalents. 
Effects that create new life, encourage growth, or empower Creation’s elements are more difficult, resulting in increased Ambition. Other effects may be entirely impossible — necromantic workings can’t make a verdant paradise out of a blasted scrubland, but it might be able to transform it into a roiling swamp full of predators and disease.
## Example Workings by Circle and Ambition
<details><summary>Ivory Ambition 1</summary>Animate zombies. Extract a memory or passion from a ghost as a minor talisman. Wither a minor geographical feature such as drying up a stream or blighting a grove. Ward an area against a particular type of undead, or trap them within that same boundary. </details>
<details><summary>Ivory Ambition 2</summary>Curse someone to ensure they will linger after death, denying them the possibility of reincarnation. Instill a mindless undead with human-level intelligence and murky recollection of its life. Seal a living being in suspended animation. Extend a mortal target’s life in exchange for a diet of living blood. </details>
<details><summary>Ivory Ambition 3</summary>Bind a ghost into a supernatural talisman providing the equivalent of an Essence 1 Eclipse Charm. Curse a region to spread deathly influence, such as making a disease particularly dangerous, granting those who drink its bloody water vigor at the expense of their total lifespan, or transforming natural elements into their Underworldly equivalents. </details>
<details><summary>Shadow Ambition 1</summary>Bend or twist an existing supernatural property of a town-sized region of the Underworld. Cut off a ghost from the prayers of its worshippers. Inflict a region with a haunting of poltergeists. Radically transform or empower a ghost with a unique supernatural ability. Transform a god into a spirit of the Underworld. </details>
<details><summary>Shadow Ambition 2</summary>Create a small shadowland from a single meaningful death. Taint a living creature’s Essence, binding spirits to the Underworld or granting suitable mortal apprentices the knack for necromancy. Create an enchanted route between two Underworld locations. Curse a foe and his descendants unto the seventh generation. </details>
<details><summary>Shadow Ambition 3</summary>Extract souls and imbue them into new vessels. Animate or bind an undead servant with power comparable to a Second Circle demon. Dredge a new island from the Sea of Shadows. Create a localized afterlife for those who die in a certain location or under a certain circumstance. Enchant a ghost so they reform only a day after their destruction. </details>
<details><summary>Void Ambition 1</summary>Create a city-size shadowland with a single major sacrifice. Curse a city-sized region so anyone who dies there comes back as a zombie or lingers as a ghost. Enforce the Old Laws upon a citysized region, forcing the living to defer to the dead. Enshroud a city-sized region in night that lasts all winter. Conjure a fortified citadel upon a death-touched site.</details>
<details><summary>Void Ambition 2</summary>Enchant a shadowland so it always leads to the Underworld, regardless of time of day. Move an island in the Underworld to a new relative location. Inflict horrible curses that forever hobble or torment even a powerful foe. Spread plagues of lesser curses on a city-sized region. Curse an area so hostile dead may remain materialized, even by day. Transform a manse or demesne into a shadowland with an Abyssal aspect. </details>
<details><summary>Void Ambition 3</summary>Animate an undead behemoth of tremendous power. Manipulate the entire Underworld to subtly strengthen or weaken the Old Laws, freeing ghostly slaves from servitude or forcing the weak to obey the strong. Alter the metaphysical influence of the Calendar of Setesh and similar works of transcendent power, creating predictable phenomena throughout the Underworld.</details>