---
tags:
  - charm
  - Sidereal
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: —(+5m, 1wp)
Mins: Martial Arts 5, Essence 3
Type: Permanent
Keywords:
  - Dual
Duration: Permanent
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[Death-Parrying Stroke]]"
---
The martial artist is as death herself, her blade offering a final release to those whose time has come. The stylist may pay a five-mote, one-Willpower surcharge when she uses Violet Bier of Sorrows Form to gain the following additional benefits: 
-  Her withering attacks add (Strength) Overwhelming. 
-  When she crashes an enemy, his wound penalty is doubled until he leaves crash. 
-  When she lands a decisive attack that resets her Initiative, she adds her enemy’s wound penalty to her base Initiative. 
-  Incapacitating a nontrivial enemy awards her one Willpower. Sidereal Martial Arts Sidereal Martial Arts styles are the legendary secret arts of the Fivescore Fellowship. They are abstract and esoteric, each a philosophical meditation upon a concept or cosmic principle: consumption, decay, Essence, possibility, time, and more. While most Martial Arts styles are rooted in the physicality of battle, Sidereal Martial Arts transcend it, warping and transforming reality itself. Effects that refer to Martial Arts include Sidereal Martial Arts, but the specific limitations on learning and teaching Sidereal Martial Arts trump anything to the contrary. Learning Sidereal Martial Arts Among the Exalted, only Sidereals, Getimians, Solars, Abyssals, and Infernals can learn Sidereal Martial Arts. Some rare or unique beings may also be able to learn them or even create them at the Storyteller’s discretion — for example, the Deathlord known as the Bishop of the Chalcedony Thurible can use Sidereal Martial Arts and has created the Albicant Sepulcher of Extinction style, a bleak expression of the Neverborn’s feverish desire for total destruction. Before a character can begin learning Sidereal Martial Arts, she must learn either all Charms of a single Martial Arts style or a total of ten Charms among any number of styles. Sidereal Martial Arts Charm costs ten experience for characters for whom Martial Arts is a Caste or Favored Ability and twelve experience for others. Solars with Supernal Martial Arts and other Exalted with similar advantages don’t apply them to Sidereal Martial Arts. Only Sidereals are capable of learning Sidereal Martial Arts without a mentor and creating new styles. Other characters must seek out a Sidereal’s tutelage. However, Sidereal Essence is intrinsically instructive, making it possible for such characters to learn Sidereal Martial Arts through repeated battles against a Sidereal stylist. New Keyword: Enlightenment Attaining the apex of Sidereal Martial Arts’ power demands an understanding of subtle cosmic principles and a harmony with the nature of reality beyond many students. Sidereals always gain the benefits of a Sidereal Martial Arts’ Enlightenment effects. Getimians access Enlightenment effects based on whether their Essence’s current nature is Flowing or Still. Other Exalted can’t ordinarily access Enlightenment effects. Charcoal March of Spiders Style It’s said this style was created when an ancient Sidereal witnessed Asna Firstborn, mother of pattern spiders, kill and consume her mate. Enlightened by the sublime horror-beauty of the act, they attained an understanding of the cosmic principles of consumption. Its practitioners emulate the movements of pattern spiders, striking with venomous techniques that devour Essence, dissolve souls, and reweave reality. Students fast throughout their training as they undergo grueling regimens that hone their body and guide them to this style’s enlightenment: elaborate footwork drills, aerial contortions while dangling upside-down from silken threads, striking the surface of vats of poison and acid, and meditating while surrounded with heaping platters of delicacies. Charcoal March of Spiders Weapons: This style’s unarmed attacks are sweeping rapid kicks and four-fingered strikes that can jab pressure points as easily as they gouge eyes. It’s also compatible with fighting chains, knives, meteor hammers, nunchaku, rope darts, seven-section staffs, and whips. Armor: This style is incompatible with armor. Complementary Abilities: Athletics supports stylists’ mobility. Nature: Flowing. Nunchaku Light (Accuracy +4, Damage +7, Defense +0, Overwhelming 1) Tags: Bashing, Martial Arts, Disarming, Flexible