---
tags:
  - charm
  - Sidereal
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: 20m, 1wp
Mins: Martial Arts 5, Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Aggravated
  - Enlightenment
  - Perilous
Duration: Indefinite
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[Flare of Invulnerability]]"
  - "[[Gentle Touch of the Wicked Hand]]"
  - "[[Inner Dragon Unbinding]]"
---
The martial artist’s fists blur as she pounds them against the air, infecting and shattering reality to unleash a storm of tainted Essence. The stylist creates a miasma of spiritual decay, an environmental hazard imbued with a disease from Feverish Essence Infection’s repertoire, with difficulty 5 and damage 4A/round. It must be resisted with (Stamina + Resistance), and damaged characters are exposed to the disease. Even inanimate matter is infected, with effects determined by the Storyteller. It extends out to short range; at the end of each turn after the one she used this Charm on, the hazard’s range increases by one band. This Charm ends if the stylist takes a non-reflexive actions, moves or is moved, or is crashed. If left uninterrupted, the environmental hazard expands by one mile per hour, maximum (Essence) miles. At this point, the Storyteller need not make individual rolls for trivial characters caught in the storm; he can simply narrate the mass deaths and panic that result. A difficulty 2 (Perception + Occult) roll lets a character discern the storm is actively emanating from a source at its center. Enlightenment: While using this Charm, the stylist can sustain Flare of Invulnerability without needing to spend motes and waives the Willpower costs of Glorious Citrine Protection and Spiritual Perfection. Reset: Once per story unless reset by accomplishing a major character or story goal using this style or Medicine. Supernatural Diseases The following are among the maladies that Citrine Poxes stylists might wield. Drunken Moth Sickness Those who consume food or drink within which a spirit’s been bound risk contracting drunken moth sickness. The spirit’s thoughts — or those of a Citrine Poxes stylist — infect the victim’s mind with one of the spirit’s Principles — or one of a Citrine Poxes stylist’s. The victim counts as having that Principle at this disease’s intensity. Drunken moth sickness has virulence and morbidity (spirit or stylist’s Essence + 2) and an interval of one day. It’s a Psyche effect as well as a disease; rolls against it use (Wits + Integrity) instead of (Stamina + Resistance). It can also be cured by exorcism, using the spirit or stylist’s Resolve. Medical treatment is useless unless enhanced by magic. Minor: The victim can’t regain Willpower from sleep if she’s acted against the Principle the day before. Major: As above, and when the victim has the opportunity to act on the Principle, the Storyteller may force him to do so unless he enters a Decision Point and cites an Intimacy of equal or greater intensity to spend one Willpower. This counts as a botch toward the limit the disease can inflict (Exalted, p. 234). Defining: As above, and when the victim acts in a way that aligns with the Principle, the Storyteller chooses one of his Intimacies to weaken by one step. He can spend one Willpower to resist a Defining Intimacy being weakened. Death: The victim’s mind is emptied of all but the disease’s Principle, suppressing his other Intimacies and preventing him from taking any action that doesn’t directly advance the Principle. Death typically results from dehydration or similar self-neglect. This can kill even the Exalted, though they may be more resilient to deprivation than mortal victims. Jigsaw Organ Condition This bizarre disease occurs in nature, but it’s vanishingly rare. The Convention on Pestilence has documented a total of forty cases in the Second Age and has no conclusive theory as to its cause. It fractures the victim’s Essence, weakening his body’s physical integrity and coherence. The least harm can sever limbs or cut loose organs, but such wounds are trifling concerns. A severed limb stuck back on its stump will regrow and reattach; a swallowed organ slides back into place. A detached body part doesn’t bleed, deteriorate, or decay; neither does the flesh from which it was expelled. Reattaching it is a miscellaneous action. While characters suffer ill effects from losing vital organs like hearts and lungs, this isn’t fatal as long as the organ remains intact. Attacking a detached body part is treated as attacking the victim for all purposes, including him being able to use his Charms to defend. Jigsaw organ condition has virulence 5, morbidity 4, and an interval of one day. Medical treatment is useless unless enhanced by magic. It’s a Shaping effect that alters the body as well as a disease. Minor: The first time the victim takes decisive damage each scene, he suffers a crippling injury (Exalted, p. 201) commensurate to the damage dealt, though it doesn’t reduce damage. Injuries inflicted by this disease don’t count against the once-per-scene limit. Detached body parts heal instantly upon being reattached. Major: As above, and when the victim suffers enough decisive damage to increase his wound penalty, he suffers a commensurate crippling injury. Reattached body parts don’t heal until the current scene ends. Defining: As above, and the victim suffers a crippling injury when he’s crashed. Use half the withering damage, rounded up, instead of decisive damage to determine the injury’s severity. Reattached body parts don’t heal until the victim’s received a full night’s rest. Death: The victim loses all physical coherence, sloughing off skin, muscle, organs, and bone until his body has fallen apart completely. This incapacitates him but isn’t fatal: his tissues remain alive and capable of reattachment, but no amount of care can keep up with the pace of his deterioration. The Exalted and similarly resilient beings never reach this stage. White Sun Fever Those who spend too long meditating on the numinous, the transcendent, and the infinite are at risk of this rare fever of the soul. It festers in its victim’s Essence, posing the greatest threat to the most powerful. The hallucinations, disorientation, and spiritual malaise it causes grow stronger as its victim spends Essence, seeping deeper into their soul. White sun fever has virulence and morbidity (victim’s Essence + 2) and a one-day interval. Medical treatment is useless unless enhanced by magic. Minor: Once per day, the victim loses one Willpower when he spends five or more motes in an instant, suffering exacerbated symptoms. Major: As above, and hallucinations at the edge of the victim’s peripheral vision inflict a −1 penalty on rolls requiring intense focus, concentration, or attention to detail and −1 Resolve. Spending five or motes in an instant exacerbates this, increasing both penalties by one for the rest of the scene, maximum (victim’s Essence). Defining: As above, and the victim’s penalty is added to the mote cost of all magic he uses. Effects without mote costs are unaffected. Death: The victim’s Essence rages unrestrained, destroying his body from within while his mind is locked in a ceaseless hallucination, a fever-dream that lasts until his Essence has fully consumed him. Mortals never reach this stage. Iphimedeia, the Revel Outside the Sealing of the Gates. Iphimedeia’s only known vector in the modern age is Citrine Poxes of Contagion style. Sidereals debate its nature. Evidence of a mysterious Fourth Supreme Plague? A weapon of the enemies of the gods? A terrible secret hidden in the Essence of all things? It warps and melts its victim’s flesh and drives them to feverish dancing. If someone who wishes to have a child is infected and subsequently recovers, his player may choose to have him become pregnant, regardless of whether he could normally bear children. Iphimedeia’s virulence and morbidity is equal its victim’s Resolve; the greater his composure and self-restraint, the harder the sickness is to resist. It has a one-day interval. Medical treatment is useless unless enhanced by magic. Its flesh-warping symptoms are a Shaping effect, while the compulsion to dance is a Psyche effect. Minor Symptom: The victim suffers one die of aggravated damage each day, ignoring Hardness, as her flesh distorts. She adds (Intensity) successes on dance-based Performance rolls. If he can dance without facing any meaningful risks or consequences, he must do so, requiring him to flurry to take any action other than dancing. He may pay one Willpower to resist for a day. Major Symptom: As above, but the victim’s flesh is noticeably warped, imposing a −1 crippling penalty on physical rolls. The damage it inflicts increases to (victim’s Resolve) dice; the first roll occurring upon reaching Major Intensity. The compulsion to dance now applies even when doing so is dangerous, even in combat. Defining Symptom: As above, but the victim’s body is half-melted and constantly deteriorating. The crippling penalty increases to −3 and the damage inflicted increases to (victim’s Resolve + 5) dice; the first roll occurring upon reaching Defining intensity. Spending Willpower only lets him reduce the urge to dance for a scene, not a day. Death: The victim’s warped and distorted flesh finally slips free as he completes one final dance, shaking off globs of skin and muscle until all that remains is his spasming skeleton. Emerald Gyre of Aeons Style Jehu Khoor aged a thousand years in a single blow from the Prince of Hours, and glimpsed the shape of eternity thereby. He spent the remainder of his life both creating this style to express this understanding and authoring the Tractate of Eternity. The text is infamously impenetrable, equal parts metaphysical treatise, theory of history, and mystical allegory. It has no end and no beginning, endlessly recursive. Interpretations vary wildly: Raxevi Alzira views the Tractate as an allegory of the events of Creation’s history; Countervalent Raven sees it as a guide to escaping the prison of eternity. Students of this style consume heavy quantities of hashish, salvia, and other drugs that alter their perception of time before practicing circle walking, breathing exercises, and weapon drills. They also devote much time to the study of Khoor’s text, or at least their teacher’s explanation of it. One traditionally concludes their training by penning their own exegesis, creating a body of interpretation, critiques, and commentary as dense as the text itself. Emerald Gyre of Aeons Weapons: This style specializes in striking while moving, using openpalm blows and spinning kicks whose force comes from the stylist’s spiraling body movements. It’s also compatible with kusarigama, meteor hammers (p. XX), nunchaku (p. XX), rope darts (p. XX), staffs, seven-section staffs, and wind-and-fire wheels. Armor: This style is incompatible with armor. Complementary Abilities: Stylists use Lore to study this style’s foundational text and to understand the nature of time so that they may manipulate it. Nature: Flowing. Kusarigama A kusarigama is a sickle with a weighted chain attached to the base of its handle or blade. The chain’s weighted end is held in one hand to strike and entangle, while the sickle, held in the offhand, is used to deal killing blows to grappled enemies. Medium (Accuracy +2, Damage +9, Defense +1, Overwhelming 1) Tags: Lethal, Martial Arts, Disarming, Flexible, Grappling, Reaching, Two-Handed