---
tags:
  - source/dragon-book
---
# Adding Bonus Dice
Unlike the [[Solar Exalted]], the Dragon-Blooded don’t have generic [[Excellencies]]. Instead, each Ability has its own Excellency Charm. At character creation, a Dragon-Blood gains five [[Excellencies]] from any of her Aspect or Favored Abilities for free; the rest must be purchased normally. A Dragon-Blood cannot add more than (Ability + [[Specialty]]) dice to a roll. Automatic successes count as two dice each towards this limit. Static values such as Evasion or [[Resolve]] can be raised by half this amount, rounded down. The only exceptions are rarer “nonCharm” dice or successes, which don’t count towards the limit at all. Example: A Dragon-Blood with [[Melee]] 4 and a specialty of (Spears) could add up to five dice on an attack roll or raise her [[Melee]] Parry by 3 while wielding a spear, but only add four dice to a roll or raise her Parry by 2 with any other weapon. 

# The Elemental Aura
The apex of Dragon-Blooded elemental power is the Elemental Aura, a state in which she centers the totality of her [[Essence]] around a single element. Dragon-Blooded of any Aspect are capable of entering all five Elemental Auras. The Aura manifests visibly through the Dragon-Blood’s anima banner if it’s above the dim level. If she’s in the Aura that matches her Aspect, her anima intensifies dramatically — the flames of a Fire Aspect’s anima might burn blue-white, while an Air Aspect’s cloudy anima might grow dark and begin to crackle with lightning. In other Auras, her anima becomes a hybrid of two elements — an [[Earth Aspect]] in Fire Aura could manifest an anima banner of flowing lava, while the anima of a [[Water Aspect]] in Wood Aura might be filled with writhing kelp. To enter an Elemental Aura, the Dragon-Blood must use [[Charms]] and/or anima powers of only one element during her combat turn (or a similar narrative interval outside of combat, such as an action in a scene of social influence or a round of naval combat). At the end of her turn, she enters the appropriate Aura. The Elemental Aura lasts until the end of the scene, but ends early if the Dragon-Blood uses a Charm or anima power of another element at any time. When the Dragon-Blood’s anima banner reaches bonfire level, she becomes unable to enter the Aura of any element except her Aspect. If she’s in another Elemental Aura when her anima reaches bonfire, it shifts to match her Aspect’s element. 

The Aura affects [[Charms]] in multiple ways: 
- Some [[Charms]] become more powerful in the appropriate Elemental Aura. 
- [[Charms]] with the Aura keyword can only be used in an Aura that matches their aspect. 
- Some Aura [[Charms]] require the Dragon-Blood to expend her Aura as part of their cost. 
- Some Aura [[Charms]] have “Duration: Aura,” indicating that they last only as long as the Dragon-Blood remains in that element’s Aura. 
[[Charms]] with the Balanced keyword harmonize with the Dragon-Blood’s Aura regardless of their aspect — they neither prevent her from entering Elemental Aura when used alongside [[Charms]] of another element, nor do they ever cause her Aura to end. **Spending motes on [[Charms]] that lack an elemental aspect never prevents the Dragon-Blood from entering Aura, nor does it end her Aura.** Example: On her turn, Tepet Jalena attacks using two Air-aspected [[Charms]]. At the end of her turn, she enters Air Aura. Later in the round, she reflexively uses a Fire Charm to defend against an attack, instantly ending her Aura. Signature [[Charms]] Each Ability has five puissant elemental Signatures. A Dragon-Blood can only learn one Signature Charm per Ability. She doesn’t have to pick the Signature Charm that matches her own elemental aspect. At [[Essence]] 5, she unlocks the potential to learn one more Signature Charm from each of her Aspect and Favored Abilities. She must use her second choice to learn the Signature Charm that matches her own Aspect if she hasn’t already done so.

# Signature [[Charms]]
Each Ability has five puissant elemental Signatures. A Dragon-Blood can only learn one Signature Charm per Ability. She doesn’t have to pick the Signature Charm that matches her own elemental aspect. At [[Essence]] 5, she unlocks the potential to learn one more Signature Charm from each of her Aspect and Favored Abilities. She must use her second choice to learn the Signature Charm that matches her own Aspect if she hasn’t already done so.