---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
Workings require considerable time and effort to complete, and their expansive scope often requires the Storyteller and the sorcerer’s player to work together in defining its precise effects.

Sorcerous workings allow characters to permanently reshape the world through their occult skill, enacting blessing, curses, or transformations. Renewing the fertility of a barren field, creating life in a vat of alchemical reagents, raising a city up from its foundations to sit in the sky— all of these miracles can be achieved through sorcerous workings.

Every working begins with the sorcerer’s intention: what she wishes to accomplish. Once this intention has been established—usually between the player and the Storyteller, if the sorcerer is a player’s character—the working is then assigned three separate traits of [[#Ambition]], [[#Finesse]], and [[#Means]]. Enacting the working is an [[Action#Extended|extended]] ([[Intelligence]] + [[Occult]]) roll, with a difficulty set by the [[#Finesse]] of the working, a [[Action#Extended#Goal Number|goal number]] set by its [[#Ambition]], and a [[Action#Extended#Terminus|terminus]] set by its [[#Means]]. It has a base [[Action#Extended#Interval|interval]] of one week.

While most of the actual process of performing the sorcerous working over a span of weeks can be relegated to downtime or off-screen, the sorcerer must remain active in its completion, spending time performing ritual actions, arcane experiments, or whatever methodology fits her aesthetic of [[sorcery]] to bring about the working. **If the sorcerer is unable to attend to these duties for at least part of an interval, then no roll can be made for that interval (though it does not count towards the terminus)**.

Once a sorcerous working has been successfully completed, the sorcerer must pay experience points to finalize it based on its [[#Ambition]]. If the sorcerer is performing a working of a Circle below her level of mastery, the cost is reduced by two experience points per Circle of difference, to a minimum of 1xp. It is also possible for a sorcerer to attempt a working [[#Beyond the Boundaries]] of the Circles she is initiated in (this is impossible with [[Rules Reference/Sorcery/Sorcery#Spells]]).
^3f970d

##  #advice/storyteller 

If a sorcerer persistently ignores a working in progress, the Storyteller might introduce complications as a result of this.
<details><summary>Example complications</summary>
Hostile demons might emerge from a half-finished portal to Hell, or an incomplete blessing of fertility over a field might vent into the local wildlife, causing them to grow huge and aggressive.
</details>

This should be thought of not as a way of penalizing the sorcerer, but as a way to bring narrative focus back to the working in a dramatic way.

Experience points spent on a working are not meant to be a poor investment— if a supernatural minion is slain, an enchanted bridge is washed away, a village under the sorcerer’s blessing is put to the sword by a deathknight, or a working is otherwise made irrelevant, **the experience points spent on a neutralized working are refunded to the sorcerer at the end of the current story**.
# Ambition
The Ambition of a sorcerous working is the power and scope of the miracle the sorcerer wishes to perform. Ambition is rated on a scale of 1 to 3, but each circle of sorcerous working has its own separate scale of Ambition— what might be a trivial feat of spellcraft for a master of the Solar Circle is a nigh-impossible feat for a newly-initiated sorcerer of the Terrestrial Circle. For each circle, an Ambition 1 working is what most sorcerers might consider a simple feat of magic, similar in power to what might be achieved by a spell of that circle. An Ambition 2 working is an exceptional feat of magic, with considerable power or scope beyond what any spell could achieve. An Ambition 3 working is the highest and most difficult feat of that circle’s magic that can be imagined, defining the upper bound of what that circle of [[sorcery]] can accomplish. The Ambition of a working is set by the Storyteller based on the effect the sorcerer’s player wishes to create, and determines the goal number of the working, listed in the tables below.

| Circle      | Ambition | Goal Number | Experience Cost             |
| ----------- | -------- | ----------- | --------------------------- |
| Terrestrial | 1        | 5           | 2<sup>[[#^3f970d\|1]]</sup> |
| Terrestrial | 2        | 10          | 4<sup>[[#^3f970d\|1]]</sup> |
| Terrestrial | 3        | 20          | 8<sup>[[#^3f970d\|1]]</sup> |
| Celestial   | 1        | 25          | 2<sup>[[#^3f970d\|1]]</sup> |
| Celestial   | 2        | 30          | 4<sup>[[#^3f970d\|1]]</sup> |
| Celestial   | 3        | 35          | 8<sup>[[#^3f970d\|1]]</sup> |
| Solar       | 1        | 40          | 2                           |
| Solar       | 2        | 50          | 4                           |
| Solar       | 3        | 75          | 8                           |
## Ambition by Circle
### Terrestrial
Workings of the Terrestrial Circle are generally rooted in transforming, enhancing, or weakening pre-existing elements of the natural world, rather than directly invoking supernatural forces. When outright supernatural forces are invoked, their intervention is generally constrained or specialized in some significant way. Emerald Circle workings are typically limited either in power or scope. An Emerald Circle working might enchant all the fields of a village, but only with a minor blessing—something that would still be a marvel to the inhabitants of the village, but augments the natural properties of that area or protects it against a mundane threat or nuisance, rather than completely overwriting the nature of that region through magic. Conversely, the most powerful workings of this circle are confined to the scope of a single chamber within a larger structure or the transformation of a single character. As a general rule, any sorcerous feat the Storyteller feels should be routine for a Dragon-Blooded or mortal sorcerer should fall under this circle.
### Celestial
Miracles of outright supernatural power, either rewriting the laws of the natural world on a relatively large scale or instilling supernatural power into the mundane world. They can have scope sufficient to place powerful blessings or curses upon an entire village or a particular neighborhood or feature of a city, and their power is either an overt manifestation of supernatural magic, or a dramatic and drastic change to the properties of the natural world. As a general rule, this is the circle for sorcerous workings that the Storyteller feels established Lunar and Sidereal sorcerers, as well as accomplished Solar sorcerers, should be capable of achieving without excessive effort, or that an exceptionally potent Dragon-Blood or mortal might be capable of attaining with great dedication, skill, and risk.
### Solar
The height of what can be accomplished by [[sorcery]]. They can rewrite the laws of reality, or write new ones into being. Their scale can be huge, encompassing entire cities at the low end of Ambition 1 or the whole of the cosmos at its upper, nigh-unattainable end. Its power can bend time, space, or the boundaries of worlds to the sorcerer’s will, and manipulate the fine workings of [[Essence]] down to the level of changing a being’s very soul. As long as the Storyteller feels that something should be possible through a sorcerous working, it can be attained through workings of the Adamant Circle.
## Example Workings
<details><summary>Terrestrial Circle Ambition 1</summary>Create or bind magical entities capable of performing mundane, household chores, but not much else, in service to a person, organization, or structure. Enchant a path to prevent travelers from becoming lost or lead them to a particular location. Invite an unbound First Circle demon into Creation in a ritual that culminates at midnight. Make permanent but smallscale geographical alterations, such as drawing up a freshwater spring or flattening a hill. Ward a town or neighborhood-sized region against a particular type of mundane nuisance, such as forest fires, crop-eating pests, or rabid animals.</details>
<details><summary>Terrestrial Circle Ambition 2</summary>Cross two different species of plant or animal to create a hybrid species with the best traits of both. Grant mutations to oneself or a willing subject. [[Instill]] a plant, animal, or object with human-level intelligence. Ward a chamber against scrying, teleportation, or intrusion by a particular type of spirit.</details>
<details><summary>Terrestrial Circle Ambition 3</summary>Bless a region to enhance its natural properties, causing a field to always deliver a bountiful harvest or a freshwater river to always run clean. Create a completely new but mundane form of life, or breed a specimen of an existing species with a minor supernatural power that augments its strongest traits. Place a curse on a small region in a way that diminishes, warps, or blights its mundane aspects such as flora, fauna, or natural resources, making it all but impossible to make a livelihood off the cursed land. Create a rift between two realms of existence that allows communication, possession, or similar forms of limited interaction, but not actual transportation.</details>
<details><summary>Celestial Circle Ambition 1</summary>Create a sorcerous bond between two characters that allows them to mentally communicate at any distance, or bestow a similarly useful but limited supernatural blessing. Create persistent illusions that haunt a structure or town-sized region. Invite an unbound Second Circle demon into Creation in a ritual that culminates on the night of the new moon. Transform a chamber so that its interior emulates the environment of any natural terrain within Creation. Ward a chamber or structure against all intruders with magical traps or barriers.</details>
<details><summary>Celestial Circle Ambition 2</summary>Alter the weather of a town-sized region over a long duration, extending the harvest season by a month every year or making every winter exceptionally harsh. Enchant fortifications to strengthen them against mundane assault or give them a measure of resilience to supernatural powers. Grant a supernatural power to one’s self or to a willing subject, such as a burning gaze, a hypnotic tongue, or cursed blood that turns into deadly scorpions when shed. Make alterations to the nature of a willing supernatural being, such as imbuing a fire elemental with the aspect of earth to turn it into a being of molten magma, or reshaping a demon to express a different facet of its oversoul and altering its [[Charms]] to match. Spread mutations throughout the mundane flora and fauna of an entire ecosystem.</details>
<details><summary>Celestial Circle Ambition 3</summary>Create a loyal minion with supernatural powers comparable to a Second Circle demon or notable god. Enchant the architecture of an entire structure to grant it limited mobility, the capacity to rearrange its internal structure, intelligence comparable to a human, or similar powers. Open a permanent portal between two different realms of existence, such as a small shadowland or a faerie ring that leads travelers into the deep Wyld.</details>
<details><summary>Solar Circle Ambition 1</summary>Completely transform the terrain of a region to raise lush tropical paradises out of deserts, curse forests to wither away into scrubland, dry up seas, and so on. Enchant a village or small citysized region to emulate the nature of another realm of existence, possibly acting as a point of meeting between the two worlds. Purify a hundred miles of shadowland or Wyld zone. Extract the soul of a willing mortal from his body and transfer it into a new vessel, such as an automaton, manse, or similar form. Restore someone’s body to the prime of its youth. Ward an entire city against invasion with supernatural traps, barriers, or concealment.</details><details><summary>Solar Circle Ambition 2</summary>Alter major metaphysical properties of a city-sized region: make it capable of moving across Creation, cause it to rise up and float in the sky, alter the nature of space within it so that it’s bigger on the inside of its borders than the outside, meddle with the flow of time within it, make it invisible or intangible to those who do not meet certain conditions. Enchant a city-sized region or a group to change the nature of the afterlife for those who die within it, such as designating particulars of how they reincarnate or transforming the souls of the dead into elementals. Lay a potent curse on a city, region, or group of people that can only be broken when specific circumstances are met. Utterly transform the nature of a supernatural being— remaking a demon as a god, or turning an elemental into a specter composed of the corpse-elements of the Underworld, or similar</details>
<details><summary>Solar Circle Ambition 3</summary>Make subtle alterations to the metaphysics of the entire cosmos. Create a supernatural being of a singular nature and considerable power. Cast a city-sized region into a different realm of existence, or outside of time and space altogether, with set conditions for when it returns or how it can be accessed.</details>

# Finesse
The Finesse of a sorcerous working is the extent to which a sorcerer controls how its effects manifest and what form they take, rated on a scale of 1, 3, or 5 and set by the player. The base difficulty of the ([[Intelligence]] + [[Occult]]) roll to perform a sorcerous working at each interval is equal to the working’s Finesse. 

While every sorcerous working is defined by the sorcerer’s intention or goals in performing it, Finesse determines the extent to which the sorcerer’s player gets to dictate how this intent is fulfilled by the working, rather than leaving it up to the Storyteller. 
<details><summary>Example</summary>If, for example, a sorcerer wished to ward a chamber against demons, a Finesse 1 working and a Finesse 5 working would both be equally efficacious in fulfilling that goal—but the nature and mechanics of the Finesse 1 working would be decided almost entirely by the Storyteller, while those of the Finesse 5 working would be decided by the sorcerer’s player.</details>

If the success of a sorcerous working is in jeopardy, the sorcerer’s player may choose to lower its Finesse midproject, abandoning some of her control over the outcome to make it more easily attainable. However, there are consequences to taking this patchwork approach to sorcery—each step of Finesse the sorcerer drops counts as one [[Dice Rolls#Botch|botch]] to complicate the final outcome of the working, as the sorcerer’s abandoned designs leave metaphorical rough edges on her finished project.
## Finesse 1
The Storyteller determines how the working manifests in the world. This will always be in accordance with the basic intent of the working— a sorcerer wishing to create a magical servant from clay who succeeds at a Finesse 1 working will never end up creating something that refuses to serve him—but all details of the final result are in the Storyteller’s hands. 
## Finesse 3
The sorcerer’s player comes up with a rough description of how the working plays out in the world, which the Storyteller can then polish or embellish with catches, quirks, or twists that make the working more interesting or flavorful without undermining the core intent of the working. 
## Finesse 5
The sorcerer’s player defines exactly how the sorcerous working plays out in the world, subject to Storyteller approval.
# Means
The Means of a sorcerous working are the resources that a sorcerer has available to put to use beyond the baseline of her own sorcerous power. Means can take many forms, but all of them have the same benefit—adding to the working’s [[Action#Extended#Terminus|terminus]]. Multiple Means stack their benefit, and it is intended that more ambitious workings will require the extra rolls from these to succeed. **A sorcerous working with no Means has a [[Action#Extended#Terminus|terminus]] of 5 rolls**.

Common Means include:

| Means                         | Terminus Increase                                 |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| [[#Complementary Abilities]]  | +1 per ability at rating 5 (or 3+ with specialty) |
| [[#Complementary Spells]]     | +1 per known spell                                |
| [[#Cooperation]]              | +1 per sorcerous assistant (see details)          |
| [[#Extra Time]]               | +1 per increase in interval                       |
| [[#Exotic Components]]        | +1 per component consumed                         |
| [[#Sorcerous Infrastructure]] | +1, or +2 if First Age infrastructure             |

## Complementary Abilities
A sorcerer who’s mastered an Ability that naturally lends itself to the sorcerous working she’s undertaking may claim that as one of her Means, allowing her to make one additional roll. Examples include using [[Medicine]] for a sorcerous working intended to create a new form of organism, or [[Performance]] for a working to fill the air around her home with songs which befuddle those who approach uninvited. In order to claim this benefit, the sorcerer must have a rating of 5 in the complementary Ability, or a rating of 3+ along with an appropriate specialty. At the Storyteller’s discretion, a sorcerer who’s invested in a significant number of [[Charms]] or other supernatural powers that are either based on or enhance the complementary Ability may instead receive an additional 2 intervals from that Ability.
## Complementary Spells
A sorcerer may claim one of her known spells as a Means if its function is related to the working she is trying to perform, allowing her to make one additional roll. A sorcerer attempting to breed a species of obsidian butterflies would obviously benefit from knowing [[Death of Obsidian Butterflies]], while one attempting to create a rift through which demons can possess mortal cultists could claim benefits from knowing the spell to summon demons of the same circle as those brought through the rift.
## Cooperation
The assistance of another sorcerer initiated into the Circle of the working allows for one additional roll. Alternatively, the sorcerer could receive assistance from a supernatural entity who, while not a sorcerer, possesses powers that naturally lend themselves to the completion of the working—a sorcerer trying to revive a dry riverbed might seek the assistance of a river god or water elemental, while one attempting to open a portal into the Underworld might seek help from an Abyssal Exalt. As a third alternative, a character might use a group of characters who are not sorcerers, but are well-versed in [[Occult]], such as an infernal cult or a Heptagram class. Each of these alternatives can add one roll, but they don’t stack with each other. In theory, a sorcerer who had access to a large organization of fellow sorcerers initiated into the Circle of the working could add two additional rolls from this Means, but such organized networks are few and far between in the current, fallen era.
## Extra [[Time]]
A sorcerer willing to invest months or even years of preparation, research, and diligent practice into a sorcerous working may claim that extra time as one of her Means. Extending the interval of the roll from one week to one month allows the sorcerer to make one additional roll, while extending the interval to one cycle (three months) allows for two additional rolls. A sorcerer could receive three additional rolls by extending the interval to one year, but only the most dedicated of sorcerers are willing to retire from the world for that long.
## Exotic Components
Esoteric or rare materials that the sorcerer has accumulated over the course of the story may be consumed in the process of a working to count as a Means, allowing the sorcerer to make one additional roll. What counts for this category is left largely to the Storyteller’s discretion, as he will generally be the one introducing these exotic components into the game. The severed head of a Wyld behemoth, carved with glyphs of abjuration and displayed prominently from the walls of a city, might aid in warding that city against the influence of the Wyld, while an orichalcum lantern lit with a tongue of sunfire found in a First Age ruin could be used as part of a working to purify a shadowland. At the Storyteller’s discretion, exceptionally rare or powerful components, such as the withered corpus-fragments of a slain Deathlord, can add two additional rolls to an appropriate working
## Sorcerous Infrastructure 
Sorcerous laboratories or ritual chambers stocked with esoteric texts, occult reagents, and other tools of the sorcerer’s trade add one additional roll to a sorcerous working. It is no easy thing to assemble such infrastructure—even among the opulence of the Realm, most sorcerers must make do with basic, rudimentary study chambers tucked away in the far wing of a family manse. For a newly-Exalted sorcerer to assemble her own sorcerous infrastructure would be an adventure in itself. Sorcerous infrastructure from the First Age could provide two additional rolls to a working, if repaired and restored to full functionality.
# Beyond the Boundaries
Unlike spells, which demand initiation into the proper circle before they can be learned, it is possible for a sorcerer to perform a working of a Circle that she has yet to master. Working beyond the boundaries is difficult, dangerous, and always requires extraordinary effort on the part of the sorcerer. The sorcerer’s player must describe the extraordinary efforts of her character and the great lengths to which she goes as she describes the enactment of the sorcerous working. 

Going beyond the boundaries of one’s sorcerous initiation has the following consequences: 
- The base difficulty of the ([[Intelligence]] + [[Occult]]) roll at each [[Action#Extended#Interval|interval]] is increased by 2 for each Circle beyond the sorcerer’s own initiation. For example, a Terrestrial Circle sorcerer attempting a Solar Circle working would make rolls at a difficulty equal to (4 + [[#Finesse]]), rather than (Finesse). Because of this, most sorcerers deliberately choose a low Finesse for such workings. 
- Each failed interval roll on a working counts as one [[Dice Rolls#Botch|botch]] to complicate the final outcome of that working. Actually botching a roll completely ruins the effort, in addition to adding disastrous consequences to that failure. 
- Even the extraordinary efforts of working beyond the boundaries has limits. A Terrestrial Circle sorcerer cannot attempt Solar Circle workings of Ambition 3. Aspiring to such world-shaking miracles requires the sorcerer at least be initiated into the Celestial Circle. 
- The default interval of such workings is increased from one week to three months, if reaching one Circle above the sorcerer’s capacity, or one year if reaching two levels above the sorcerer’s mastery. The requirement to gain additional means by dedicating extra time and effort to the working rises to one year, three years, or five years (for those reaching one Circle above their mastery), or three years, five years, or ten years (for Terrestrial Circle sorcerers attempting Solar Circle workings). 
- The experience point cost of such workings are increased by four points per Circle the sorcerer has not mastered.
# Sample Working
Ivory Eyes, a [[Twilight Caste]] initiated into the [[Charms/Solar/Occult/Celestial Circle Sorcery|Celestial Circle]] of [[sorcery]], wishes to imbue her workshop with limited intelligence and mobility. The Storyteller, consulting the [[#Ambition]] tables above, determines that this would be an **Ambition 3 working of the Celestial Circle**, requiring a total of 35 successes to complete. Ivory Eyes’s player assesses her [[#Means]]—she has a [[Craft]] rating of 5 and has invested in numerous [[Craft]] [[Charms]], which the Storyteller agrees qualifies her for two additional rolls ([[#Complementary Abilities]]), for a total of seven [[Action#Extended|intervals]]. Knowing she needs an average of about five [[Dice Rolls#Threshold Successes|threshold successes]] {[[#^a4c7ab|1]]} per interval to succeed on the working, Ivory Eyes’s player decides to set the [[#Finesse]] of the working at 3 to make sure she succeeds—risky, but she has a particular image in her head for how she wants the working to play out, so she’s willing to gamble and hope her [[Occult]] [[Excellencies|Excellency]] can pick up the slack.

Over the next seven weeks, Ivory Eyes performs numerous arcane experiments and sorcerous modifications to her workshop. She successfully attains the 35 successes needed to complete the working, but also [[Dice Rolls#Botch|botched]] one of the rolls. Because the working had Finesse 3, Ivory Eyes’s player describes how the working plays out in the world— she wants her workshop to be able to move around on spindly metallic limbs animated by sorcerous energies, and to have an intelligence that speaks to her through the flame of the forge. However, the Storyteller determines the exact details, such as how fast it can move and what [[Dice Rolls#Dice Pool|dice pools]] its animating intelligence has access to, and might make some twists to the player’s concepts—for example, deciding that the fire of the forge doesn’t just speak, but becomes a living fire elemental bound inside the workshop, controlling its movement. However, because the intention of the working was to create a mobile, intelligent workshop, the bound fire elemental’s personality should remain generally amicable to the purposes of moving the workshop where Ivory Eyes commands, and assisting in its operation. 

However, there is one botch from Ivory Eyes’s attempts, which complicates the outcome of the working. The Storyteller decides that this manifests as the workshop’s animating elemental being hopelessly in love with the sorcerer, having a [[Intimacy#Tie|Defining Tie]] of obsessive infatuation towards her. While this doesn’t hinder the working’s ability to fulfill Ivory Eyes’s original intention, it may lead to awkward situations and dramatic twists in play ([or possibly to a very strange love story](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Howl%27s_Moving_Castle_(film))).

#custom/note I suspect this is a slight error, [[Action#Extended]] are unusual in that they count successes which **meet or exceed** their difficulty, effectively [[Dice Rolls#Threshold Successes]] + 1 for each successful roll. 
^a4c7ab