---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
Some things are beyond the power of even the mightiest sorcerers. While this is ultimately a matter for the Storyteller to decide, a few specific prohibitions are listed below, along with the reasoning behind the restrictions. 
- **Immortality Has A Catch**: [[Templates/sorcery]] can make a character immortal, but never in an unconditional, guaranteed fashion. There may be periodic rituals needed to renew a character’s immortality, certain conditions under which he can die, a regional restriction he cannot travel outside of without risking his immortality, or similar. This does not mean that immortality is a trap or a waste of effort— instead, the purpose of this is to preserve the relevance and power of death as a dramatic element within the game, even if the players do bestow immortality to all their friends, allies, and family. 
- **No Resurrection**: Dead is dead. A sorcerer might try all manner of clever tricks—binding someone’s ghost into a sorcerously-created vessel, imprinting his memories onto a cloned body, even altering the nature of reincarnation within a region so that souls retain all memories of their past lives—but once someone has died, he can never be truly brought back. While a sorcerer’s most powerful workings might create a simulacrum or duplicate of him as he was in life, it will never be the same as the original person. The purpose of this restriction is to maintain the dramatic significance of death as a narrative element within the game, and to prevent players from reversing the consequences of their actions. 
- **No [[Time]] Travel**: What has happened, happened. [[Templates/sorcery]] cannot be used to travel back into the past or to rewrite past events. The purpose of this restriction, like that on resurrection, is to emphasize the importance of the players’ choices and their consequences, as well as to avoid the tangle of narrative confusion that comes from introducing time travel and altered pasts into a collaborative narrative