---
tags:
  - charm
  - Sidereal
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: 30m, 2wp
Mins: Martial Arts 5, Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Form
Duration: One scene
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[Demesne-and-Manse Form]]"
  - "[[Four Magical Materials Form]]"
  - "[[Games of Divinity Form]]"
  - "[[Soul-Fire Shaper Form]]"
---
The martial artist vanishes into the world’s Essence, dancing the dance of all things before returning to the world, at one with it. The stylist gains either the benefits of all this style’s other Forms or up to three Martial Arts Forms she knows of any style. If she chooses the latter option, only one Form can be from a Sidereal Martial Art. Combining Forms of different styles lets her use each style’s weapons and the best of their armor compatibility with each of the other styles. If the stylist satisfies the special activation rules of a Form she knows, she may swap it for one of the chosen Forms, as long as it’s still a permissible combination. Enlightenment: Upon entering this Form, the stylist gains one Initiative for each style she’s learned all Charms for (including this one), maximum (Essence + [Lore or Occult]). Sidereals count Archery, Brawl, Melee, and Thrown as completed styles if they’ve learned their prayer strip Charm. Sorcery Sidereals pursue countless paths of sorcerous initiation, whether learned in their mortal lives or guided through them by their mentors, both Sidereals and gods alike. Such mentorships are often the foundation of deep bonds that endure for centuries. Sorcerous Initiation: The Path of the Celestial Design Sidereals trained in sorcery by the Bureau commonly seek initiation through the Path of the Celestial Design, a meditation upon the numinous pattern that undergirds the Celestial Bureaucracy. This pattern is the divine order by which the Celestial Bureaucracy binds Heaven to Creation and gods to their purviews, forged by the Ancients and reforged by the Incarnae. Through meditation upon it, sorcerers draw on Heaven’s power to work miracles of sorcery. This initiation is also common among gods who are sorcerers, as well as some elementals, Heaven’s Dragons, and others in the Celestial Bureaucracy’s employ. Shaping Rituals Arbiter of Harmonious Balance Once per scene, when the sorcerer creates, strengthens, or facilitates a bureaucratic process, cooperative relationship, negotiation, business deal, or similar arrangement, she gains (Bureaucracy + extra successes) sorcerous motes, which last until the story ends. If the arrangement was between gods, she gains additional sorcerous motes equal to the (highest god’s Essence/2, round up).If her achievement wasn’t rolled, she rolls (Charisma + Bureaucracy) for this. She can only have sorcerous motes from one use of this ritual at a time; gaining more replaces any previous uses. Dignity of the Divine Magus Once per scene, when the sorcerer succeeds on an influence role to assert the authority of a bureaucratic position she holds or a god on whose behalf she’s acting, she gains (Bureaucracy) sorcerous motes. She can also gain this benefit when she’s insulted, cheated, slandered, or otherwise treated rudely or unfairly. If she spends these sorcerous motes on a harmful spell that targets someone who’s slighted her, she adds (Bureaucracy) dice on any rolls involved. Writ of Auspicious Patronage The sorcerer may seek patronage from a prominent god of the Celestial Bureaucracy: one of the most high-ranking of terrestrial gods or a celestial god who has their own purview. This patronage is formally submitted to the Celestial Bureaucracy by burning a silk petition signed by both sorcerer and patron. Once per day, she can invoke her patron to gain (his Essence/2, round up) sorcerous motes, which last until the scene ends. If her patron has a positive Major or Defining Tie to her, she gains (his Essence) motes instead. If she spends these sorcerous motes on a spell that’s thematically related to her patron’s purview, each mote spent counts as two. She can have any number of patrons, but can only benefit from one each day. Gods don’t give their patronage freely, as they can be punished under Heaven’s law for spells cast under their auspices. For purposes of persuasion, it’s typically a serious task (Exalted, p. 216), though it may be life-changing for sorcerers known to have abused past patrons’ trust. Gods may revoke their patronage if it’s misused. The Storyteller should make it clear to a player in advance when a course of action will risk her patronage. Gods might also revoke their patronage out of political convenience if it’s central to a story involving political intrigues among spirits. Other Benefits The Song of Heaven (•): Gods hear the harmony of the Celestial Bureaucracy in the sorcerer’s voice. Gods who’ve heard her speak this scene count as having a Minor Tie of fascination or respect toward her, whichever best fits their Intimacies. Visage Made Law (•••): When someone forges the sorcerer’s signature or credentials or falsely claims to be her or to be acting on her behalf, she makes a special (Perception + Bureaucracy) read intentions rolls against him, imposing a −2 Guile penalty for being unaware of observes. Success reveals that such deceit has occurred and provides a clue to the perpetrator’s identity, methods, or motives. Every three extra successes reveal an additional clue. Writ in the Firmament (•): The sorcerer may use Occult or Bureaucracy instead of Lore to introduce facts about the Celestial Bureaucracy or the nature and history of a specific god. She doesn’t need a Lore background. If successful, her player can speculate a about a related fact. The Storyteller states whether the speculation’s completely accurate, mostly accurate, somewhat accurate, or completely inaccurate. 