---
tags:
  - evocation
  - source/arms-book
Cost: 25m, 1wp
Mins: Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Instant
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[ Storm Binding — Falling Sky Strike]]"
---
Drawing [[Stormcaller]] with the tempered will of a saint or the killing intent of a devil, the wielder unleashes a devastating storm on a nearby area — hurricanes, blizzards, floods, tsunamis. To use this Evocation, the wielder must first spend a scene in meditation, honing her intentions, before drawing the blade. The Storyteller can use the effects of [[Rain of Doom]] (Exalted, p. 483) to represent the devastation wrought by Stormcaller’s ultimate storm, or create a unique effect. As long as the wielder has attended to the daiklave’s purification dutifully for the past year, she can ensure the storm won’t harm her Circlemates or any characters she has a positive [[Intimacy|Tie]] towards. However, if she has lapsed in purifications, has an [[Intimacy]] that she formed through interaction with the bound demon, or is in [[Limit Break]], the storm rages out of her control, often inflicting unimaginable collateral damage. This Evocation can only be used once per story. The Solar may reset it when she upholds a Major or Defining [[Intimacy]] by successfully purifying [[Stormcaller]] beneath the new moon. Alternatively, she may reset it by communingwithAkavadrainasceneofmeditation,accepting a Major [[Intimacy]] that represents the demon’s corrupting influence — chosen by the Storyteller — in exchange for resetting this Evocation. The [[Dawn]] Caste anima power cannot reset this Evocation. 

## Special activation rules

This Evocation can only be awakened by a wielder who has proven her will superior to that of Akavadra, forcing the storm demon to acknowledge her as his master. This is normally done by succeeding on the [[Occult]] roll to purify the blade for every consecutive new moon over the course of a full year, though other narrative conditions may allow the wielder to assert her primacy over the demon. Alternatively, the storm demon might choose to make this Evocation available to a warrior who earns her favor through great and heartless deeds of violence. EX3 92 “ The Empress is gone. In the North and East, we face nemeses the like of which we have not seen since the Contagion. Creation itself is in the balance. And in our hour of desperation, what do these peasants do? They rebel.” The venom poured into that last word betrayed Peleps Munadi’s poise. In front of the young Dragonlord stood a table with a grand map of Voice-of-theTides Prefecture, her staff gathered around it. “The time has come. Assume your posts.” Her servants wasted no time. Even as officers saluted and withdrew, they carried out the splendid lacquered-wood display case, its lid a glass window to show off the wonder within. And inside — Empyrial Whisper. A masterpiece of artifice, that ancient suit of articulated plate had seen battles through the Empress’ reign, blessed be her name, and even before. And yet, time had hardly dulled that magnificent jade of deepest blue, or tarnished the beautiful orichalcum trim. [[Time]]... As the servants carefully lifted the heavy breastplate, Munadi’s thoughts turned to her ancestors again. It was ritual, a way of paying them homage, those who had carried Empyrial Whisper before her. With the fastening of the first strap, she voiced her name. “I am Peleps Munadi, and I wear Empyrial Whisper.” As the second strap pulled tight, she recounted the tale of her mother, Peleps Iren, who had worn the suit into battle against Peleps Redoro the Traitor General. Next strap, her grandmother before her, Peleps Adanima, who had defeated no fewer than thirty-one challengers on the field of duels. And then her great-grandfather, Peleps Kateru, who called down the storm into the armor and defeated an army of demons, though he gave his own life in victory. The spaulders came on, and she recounted the tales of House Jerah, and of Jerah Geron. In his campaigns, the armor’s breath had swept away plague’s miasma from his troops when he waged war in An-Teng. With his triumph, he had earned marriage into House Peleps, there to escape his house’s end. And before, Taharu Serenade, who led the failing Taharu family’s troops in rebellion against the Empress herself instead of wisely accepting that the age of the gentes was passing. Upon her death, the armor had been claimed by House Jerah. The greaves, marked still with the faded imprint where the ancient hero Taharu Ararren of Water, companion to the Empress in the first year of her reign, had taken a Fair Folk queen’s lance, intended for her liege. Ararren had died two weeks later, the story went, but her bloodline had entered House Peleps upon its founding, and her legend lived on. And Gens Taharu became the Saharu family, and then Sahat before ending in its founding, and the names that followed became stranger still — Ye Gaheste Extermammkor, called the first cataphract, and Ik Gahestke Axtye, the Farmer-Shogun. And yet behind these outlandish names were Dragon-Blooded heroes, true and noble, who had once lived and breathed, and who had once owned Empyrial Whisper in ancient days, when the suit had looked different yet still been the same. And as the list became erratic, and then ran out entirely, the servants attached her cloak, and then finally placed the helmet on her head. As it settled, she intoned the final entry: “And at last, the unknown one, whose deeds include the creation of Empyrial Whisper itself.” She seized her daiklave and strode forth from her pavilion, facing the serried ranks of her dragon, awesome in the sunlight reflected off their gear. And she remembered her great-grandfather, who called down the storm — she could almost hear his voice, and alongside it, the thousand voices of all those heroes who had carried this armor before her. She thrust her blade heavenward, yelling the order to her subordinates, her voice joining the chorus of those who came before. And among their number, she hoped that her name would bring no dishonor. The armor amplified her voice, and the sound reached every soldier. “To battle!” EX3 94 Chapter Three Armor of the Chosen 