Root-Lore There’s a language in the world’s trees, herbs, and flowers, each teaching subtle lessons that reveal Creation’s deepest mysteries. Not every herbalist and apothecary can divine these secrets; mastering root-lore requires both slow, careful study of Creation’s flora and a piercing insight into the truths behind them. Those who walk this path read secret wisdom from the petals of flowers, and draw power from roots and herbs. Shaping Rituals • Master Apothecary Enlightenment: Successfully introducing a fact about herbs or treating a patient using herbal medicine awards the sorcerer (Intelligence + extra successes) sorcerous motes, which last until the story ends. Completing a basic or major crafting project to create a medicine, drug, poison, etc. from plants grants (Intelligence + silver points awarded + [gold points awarded x 2]) sorcerous motes, which last until the story ends. The sorcerer can only have sorcerous motes from one use of this ritual at a time; to accept more, she loses any from previous uses. • Sorcerer’s Harvest: When the sorcerer takes a Shape Sorcery action within medium range of a prominent living plant, such as a tree, large hedge, or flower garden, she can draw (Essence) sorcerous motes from it towards the spell. She can also draw power from a wood elemental within medium range, draining (her Essence) motes from him, but only if her Shape Sorcery roll exceeds his Resolve. Each such source can only be tapped once per day. Drawing motes to cast a control spell doesn’t count towards the once-per-day limit. • Thousand Blossom Arts: The sorcerer can spend a few hours foraging in the wilderness to retrieve a puissant plant, a difficulty 2 (Intelligence + Survival) roll. The roll’s difficulty is increased in areas with sparse plant life. Collecting multiple reagents raises the difficulty by 2 but provides an effectively unlimited stock. Once per scene, she may incorporate a reagent into a spell, contributing (highest of Intelligence, Lore, or Survival) sorcerous motes towards it. Reagents retain their power for a week and can only be used by the sorcerer who harvested them.