---
tags:
  - source/arms-book
---
The arms of the Chosen are more than mindless tools. One must establish a rapport with an artifact to awaken its [[Evocations]], and how is that possible unless the weapon possesses some measure of awareness? A rare few artifacts, such as [[Beloved Adorei]] (Exalted, p. 614), the ancient soulsteel armor [[Five Edicts Dominion]] (p. 100), the bestial undersea vessel called the Brass Leviathan, and the mythical ur-sorceress Brigid’s Sword of Ice are sufficiently sapient to think and speak and plan. But even an artifact lacking such intellect requires a rapport with its wielder to unlock its potential and awaken its [[Evocations]]. If an Exalt can’t understand and relate to her weapon, she may find herself unable to bond with it, or to access more than its most rudimentary powers — at least until she stops trying to force it to be something it’s not and comes to terms with what it actually is. This is a roleplaying opportunity, and an explanation for why some NPCs can’t master certain artifacts. It’s not a tool for the Storyteller to lock off a PC from attuning artifacts or awakening [[Evocations]]. Unless otherwise specified, each player is the final arbiter regarding their rapport with their artifacts. An artifact’s character and temperament derive from many sources — ingredients, manufacture, its wielders’ dispositions and deeds. A fiery red jade daiklave may be passionate and impulsive, or a frost-shrouded blue jade [[shield]] thoughtful and calculating; an arrogant First Age prince’s [[Items/Mortal Weapons & Armour/Mortal Armour/Breastplate|breastplate]] may be proud and vain, contrasting with the humble spirit of an Immaculate monk’s [[wrackstaff]]; and a [[goremaul]] whose haft is carved from Halta’s Oracle Tree could feel homesick for Halta, and hate the Linowan.
