---
tags:
  - source/lunar-book
  - Lunar
---
Every Lunar has a [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]], a distinctive mark that appears in any form she takes. It might be an animal feature, like a leopard’s tail or a ram’s horns; a physical trait, like a blind eye or scar; a nonvisual trait, like a pungent scent or a trilling voice; or a subtle supernatural display, like a shadow that moves independently. If a [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]] is inapplicable to a specific form, it shifts into a more suitable form while remaining distinctively identifiable. If a Lunar whose [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]] is goat-like eyes becomes an eyeless animal, she might manifest distinctive eyelike markings.

The Tell’s nature is to go unnoticed. Nontrivial characters can attempt a difficulty 7 ([[Perception]] + [[Awareness]]) roll to notice a Lunar’s [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]]. Characters who’ve previously detected the Lunar’s [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]] receive three bonus dice. Magic that enhances attempts to see through disguises applies on this roll. Success lets them notice the [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]], or, if they’ve noticed it before in a different form, identify her as the same individual. On failure, that character can’t roll again while the Lunar remains in that shape. If a shapeshifted Lunar acts uncharacteristically, witnesses knowledgeable enough to recognize the discrepancy may roll to detect her [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]] again with one to three bonus dice. The Storyteller should award higher bonuses for more egregious discrepancies, and for onlookers who verify their suspicions with read intentions or profile character actions.

While circumstances may penalize rolls to notice a Lunar’s [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]], it’s never completely impossible to detect unless she knows [[Subtle Silver Declaration]] (p. XX). Once her anima reaches the glowing level, her [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]] becomes obvious.

A Lunar whose [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]] is a physical feature may take a mutation to represent it. Such a [[Exalted-Specific Rules/Lunar/Tell]] can be noticed normally by onlookers, but not the fact that it’s a feature they’ve seen on the Lunar’s other forms; making that connection requires a roll, as above.