---
tags:
  - source/solar-book
---
A final word on Storyteller characters and experience points: the rules above are intended to make playing and advancing characters exciting and rewarding. They’re not an attempt to model the average growth curve of Exalted power within the setting. Storyteller characters grow at the rate the events of the story, their personality, and their inherent potential dictates, rather than according to training times or expenditure tables, and Storyteller characters don’t track or spend experience points. To be clear, players’ characters are likely to be exceptional individuals relative to other Chosen. Unless your game features a lot of downtime, your players’ characters are likely to ascend to heights of power within a year or two of Exaltation that the average Exalt takes decades to attain. The rest of the setting isn’t intended to keep pace with them (although their most direct rivals might).
On average, most Celestial Exalts who don’t fall to the Wyld Hunt in their early days manage to reach [[Essence]] 3, though it takes decades or longer for many to get there. Of those that survive beyond the span of a mortal lifetime, a significant number eventually reach [[Essence]] 4. [[Essence]] 5 is a mark of extreme prowess, vanishingly rare among the ranks of the comparatively short-lived Dragon-Blooded and noteworthy even among centuries-old elder Celestial Exalted. To achieve such power in a matter of years rather than decades or centuries is the mark of a great prodigy. To climb beyond the earth-shaking power of [[Essence]] 5 to even greater heights was a remarkable feat even for the ancient heroes of the First Age, and such matters are beyond the scope of this book.