---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/solar-book
Cost: Ritual, 3wp
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Instant
---
Chanting from one sunrise to the next, the sorcerer calls down a soft, warm rain that carries life-giving [[Essence]]. Over the course of this spell’s ritual, the rain falls on up to ([[Essence]] x 100) squares miles of land which the Solar wishes to revitalize with the [[Benediction of Archgenesis]]. If the land is infertile, such as an arid desert, marshy bog or rocky mountain face, then the Benediction transforms it into arable terrain, encouraging plant growth and making it possible to sustain a productive agricultural community off the land. Weather is temperate, with only enough rain to keep crops well-watered and unseasonably pleasant temperatures year-round. Animal populations from other regions migrate to the newly-fertile ground, while indigenous species have been known to grow to prodigious sizes off the bounty conjured by the benediction. Even the spirit world is affected—elementals become far more likely to arise from the blessed land, while displaced gods may seek to find a position of stewardship over the terrain, flora, or fauna of the region. If the land is already fertile, [[Benediction of Archgenesis]] causes life to grow at an almost impossible rate. Fields of wheat grow to tower over those that tend them, while man-sized pumpkins and gourds become a common sight. Animals flock to the lush vitality of the region to the point of overpopulation. While this swell is enough to multiply thebountyofasingleyear’sharvestbynearlyahundredfold, the surge of growth can easily deplete the soil of nutrients and create ecosystem imbalances that will persist for years. Unless the sorcerer is vigilant in counterbalancing the effects of this lush growth, she may leave famine in her wake for years thereafter. [[Benediction of Archgenesis]] can only be cast once per story. The geomantic upheaval it causes prevents the sorcerer from casting it within one thousand miles of any region that she has previously blessed with the spell within the same year, with the exception of performing a second casting of the spell to transform a barren region made fertile into a supernaturally lush overgrowth. A sorcerer who knows [[Benediction of Archgenesis]] as her control spell reduces the distance requirement to one hundred miles. Wherever she goes, life tends to spring up in her wake—flowers grow around her when she sleeps, grasses become taller in her footsteps and her home becomes a veritable wildlife sanctuary if she isn’t careful. Distortion (Goal Number: 30): Distorting the [[Benediction of Archgenesis]] causes all plant life within ([[Essence]]) miles of the distorting sorcerer to wither and die, leaving a barren dead zone within the blessed land. Animals in the blighted region are driven outwards as the ecosystem collapses in an instant. Herbivorous creatures may stampede or raid the food supplies of settlements within or near the blessed lands, while predators respond to the flight of their prey by turning man-eater, attacking any human settlements they can find. Even the spirits of the blighted land are corrupted, each one gaining a Major [[Derangement]] (p. 168) that somehow turns them against their original purpose or makes them harmful to humankind, assigned by the Storyteller. Note that spells can only be distorted once— an enemy sorcerer could create a rotting nexus of corruption at the heart of the [[Benediction of Archgenesis]], but she could not utterly undo the spell without a sorcerous working.