---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/solar-book
Cost: 25sm, 2wp
Keywords:
  - Aggravated
  - Decisive-only
  - Perilous
Duration: Instant or until ended
---
The Solar Exalted devised this spell to terrify the enemies of the gods. Holding her arms out before her and her hands closely together, the sorcerer makes a series of motions with her fingers that turns her conjoined hands into a channel for a flow of destructive energy. The sorcerer unleashes a violent stream of red Essence that pours from her hands, slicing through scenery and incinerating those who stand in its path. Wherever the Death Ray passes, it leaves a trail of molten slag behind it. Only the strongest magical substances are immune to the melting and carving power of this attack. The sorcerer rolls Intelligence + Occult as a decisive attack roll, adding Essence successes. The attack strikes all enemies in a line out to short range from her, adding extra successes and the Solar’s current temporary Willpower to the raw damage roll. Mundane weapons cannot parry the attack and are immediately destroyed upon such an attempt. Any enemy that takes 3+ levels of damage from the Death Ray is blown back one range band and falls prone. Making this attack does not immediately reset the Solar to base Initiative. Death Ray is a tremendous torrent of power. While it is being released, the Solar may not move herself to a different range band without ending the spell, though she may be conveyed to another range band by other means (atop the deck of a ship, for example). On the Solar’s next turn, she may continue casting this spell by rolling another shape sorcery action—maintaining the spell for another round costs 5 sorcerous motes. Each additional round of casting extends the range of the spell by one band, out to a maximum of six. The Solar may continue focusing the attack along its original path, or change its direction to a different angle, even an aerial one. She keeps the successes of her original attack roll, but rolls damage separately for each new round. If the sorcerer lacks the sorcerous motes needed to continue casting this spell or chooses not to continue it, then she immediately resets to base Initiative (if not already lower). Her turn is then delayed appropriately. In addition to incinerating enemies, the destructive energy of this Charm also wreaks havoc on the terrain. A single round of exposure to Death Ray will reduce anything made of earth or stone into molten slag, creating a lava hazard (p. 230). Death Ray can scythe through oak trees like stalks of grain and can cut a wooden ship in half with relative ease. The Storyteller may adjudicate alternative, but equally punishing, effects for terrain that cannot be sliced or melted into lava. Sorcerers may take advantage of this stone-melting power to carve messages into mountainsides, liquefy fortress walls, or perform similar feats of massive but precise destruction. A sorcerer who knows Death Ray as her control spell may gain sorcerous motes whenever the Essence blast directly incapacitates a character or deals damage to a battle group. She gains sorcerous motes equal to the Essence of an incapacitated character, or the Size of a damaged battle group. These last for the duration of the scene, but may only be spent to pay the cost of subsequent castings of Death Ray. Distortion (Goal Number: 10): Distorting the Death Ray gives the opposing sorcerer a measure of protection from it, causing the destructive energy to bend and warp around him before continuing on its original course. This causes Death Ray to automatically miss the opposing sorcerer for one round.