---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/infernal-book
Cost: 50sm, 3wp
Keywords:
  - Shaping (Terrain)
Duration: Instant
---
*Wrapping her hands in the shimmering glyphs of the First Principle of Matter, the sorcerer bends and folds space itself to better suit her purposes.*

The sorcerer rearranges any amount of ground, water, air, and inanimate structures within long range, moving them as she wills in a single horrific instant. She can move living beings and objects by moving the surface they stand on, but they can avoid being moved with a difficulty 5 (Dexterity + {Athletics or Dodge}) roll. This transformation is disorienting for those caught within, but not inherently harmful, allowing a merciful sorcerer to work changes with no disturbance greater than a clap of thunder and a wave of mild nausea for those displaced.

This spell allows for wide-ranging transformations. The sorcerer can rearrange all moved matter however she chooses and can bend and combine terrain and buildings with no concern for practicality. She can inflict uncountable damage on mundane structures and on any trivial characters caught within more perilous transformations. The transformation can also impose any of the following effects that are suitable to the changes, applying to an area or areas of the sorcerer’s choice.

- **Buried Under Dust**: Particulate matter blankets and smothers everything. Those within the area fall prone under its weight, requiring a difficulty 5 rise from prone action, and begin to suffocate (Exalted, p. 232). The particulates render obstruct vision completely and impose a −3 penalty on hearing-related rolls.
- **Geomantic Backlash**: The sorcerer disrupts portions of demesnes, manses, or other magical sites within this spell’s range, unleashing a torrent of energy. This is an environmental hazard with difficulty (Manse or Demesne rating) and Damage 1L/round that lasts for the rest of the scene.
- **Thunderous Cavitation**: The sorcerer expels all air or water from an area, causing those within to begin suffocating. They must make a difficulty 3 (Stamina + Resistance) roll; failure means they begin suffocating without the chance to take a breath. Exposure to this vacuum is inherently harmful, creating an environmental hazard with difficulty 2, Damage 3L/round as the body starts to burst. If there’s any air or water adjacent to the affected area, they rush in violently to fill the vacuum, forcing all characters within to make a difficulty 3 (Stamina + Athletics) roll at the beginning of each of their turn to avoid falling prone prone. Depending on other materials present in the scene, the chaotic movement may cause other hazards. After two rounds of this, the environmental hazard dissipates. After five rounds, breathing becomes possible again if there’s any air to fill in the void.
- **Trapped in Stone**: Thick stone or other dense materials fill the area wherever the sorcerer pleases, obstructing motion and potentially trapping characters by encircling them in solid barriers. Creating an opening wide enough for a single character to pass through is a difficulty 10 feat of strength that requires Strength 7+. If the sorcerer has an abundant source of especially strong materials, such as solid iron, this becomes difficulty 15 with a minimum Strength of 10. It’s easier if a character spends an entire scene digging, reducing the difficulty by 5 and the minimum Strength by 2.
- **Vanishing Ground**: The sorcerer displaces the ground or other surface from beneath an area within range, leaving anything within it to the mercies of gravity. This doesn’t take place until the beginning of her next turn, but moving out of the area requires difficulty 5 (Dexterity + Athletics) roll for characters without flight or magic that enhances their speed, like Racing Hare Method (Exalted, p. 264). Once the sorcerer’s next turn begins, everything inside the area falls. If they were on ground level, they suffer a short-range fall as it opens up beneath them; those who were on elevated structures fall the full distance. This doesn’t free characters from other transformations, like Trapped in Stone, as the transformed matter falls with them.
# Control
The sorcerer’s hands ever tug at reality, and when she clenches her fingers, space appears to distort around them. If she crushes an object in her hands, she can turn it perfectly inside-out rather than damaging it. The sorcerer can also create structures out of raw materials with this spell rather than simply manipulating existing ones, allowing her to create any structure that could be built with a basic or major crafting project as long as suitable materials are available (Exalted, p. 240). If she has Craft (Architecture) or a similar Craft, doing so awards craft points as per a major project.