---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: 20sm, 1wp
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Varies
---
*The [[Hidden Judges of the Secret Flame]] swore themselves to the Unconquered Sun shortly after his Creation.*
Offering up a sacred vow, the sorcerer entreats them to punish the wicked. The sorcerer summons a hidden judge, a wraithsome figure of blue flame clothed in uttermost black. She rolls ([[Charisma]] + [[Occult]]) to entreat them to punish someone who’s grievously wronged her or another, or who’s willfully broken Heaven’s law. The difficulty depends on the severity of the offense: difficulty 3 for the most severe; difficulty 5 for less severe offenses that still involve violence, significant corruption, or the like; and difficulty 7 for lesser offenses. The sorcerer is incapable of lying to the summoned judge. If successful, the judge sets out to tirelessly pursue the wrongdoer until he’s imposed a fitting punishment. If the sorcerer summons the judge to the site of an injustice in progress, it may be that no roll is necessary. Alternatively, a judge may be summoned at difficulty 3 to advise the sorcerers in legal matters for either a season or for the duration of a specific legal matter. The sorcerer remains incapable of lying to them. Judges may perform similar duties if convinced of their righteousness. Control: When the sorcerer realizes someone is lying, she may cause her eyes to flash brilliantly with a hidden judge’s blue balefire. Those who see this add (her [[Essence]]) successes on rolls to see through the same lie for the rest of the scene. Trivial characters gain a Minor [[Intimacy|Tie]] of suspicion toward the liar from witnessing this. Distortion (15): Distorting this spell lets the opposing sorcerer beguile the judge, causing them to pursue someone else whom he truly believes has committed an offense of equal severity to that which the judge was summoned to punish. {THIS IS A QUICK CHARACTER IN A SIDEBAR} Hidden Judge [[Essence]]: 5; [[Willpower]]: 8; [[Join Battle]]: 12 dice Personal: 100 Health Levels: −0x6/−1x2/−2x2/−4x2/Incap. Actions: [[Bureaucracy]]: 12 dice (see Learned Hand of Justice); [[Investigation]]: 14 dice; Legal Knowledge: 14 dice (see Learned Hand of Justice); [[Read Intentions]]: 12 dice; Resist Poison/Disease: 8 dice; Senses: 12 dice; [[Social Influence]]: 10 dice; [[Stealth]]: 8 dice; [[Tracking]]: 12 dice [[Appearance]] 3 ([[Hideous]]), [[Resolve]] 7, [[Guile]] 7 Combat [[Attack]] ([[Daiklave]]): 14 dice (Damage 12L/4) [[Attack]] (Grapple): 10 dice (8 dice to control) Combat [[Movement]]: 10 dice [[Defense|Evasion]]: 3; [[Defense|Parry]]: 6 Soak/Hardness: 10/10 [[Intimacy|Intimacies]] Defining [[Intimacy|Principle]]: Justice must come to the wicked. Defining [[Intimacy|Principle]]: Punishment must be proportionate and purposeful. Defining [[Intimacy|Tie]]: The Unconquered Sun (Loyalty) Major [[Intimacy|Tie]]: Victims of Crime (Protection) [[Merits]] Learned Hand of Justice: Judges double 7s on [[Bureaucracy]] and Legal Knowledge rolls involving the [[Celestial Bureaucracy]] or other legal systems they’re familiar with. A scene spent observing, studying, or interacting with a legal system is sufficient familiarity for the judge. Sworn to the Unconquered Sun: A judge’s attacks deal aggravated damage against creatures of darkness. Offensive [[Charms]] Sacred Blade Summoning (2m; Reflexive; Instant; [[Essence]] 1): The judge’s daiklave bursts into blue flame and reappears in their hand. Alternatively, it can be banished to Elsewhere or called back in a burst of flame. Sword of Heaven’s Verdict (8m; Supplemental; Instant; Decisive-only; [[Essence]] 3): The judge adds up to five attack roll extra successes as dice of decisive damage. Against the wrongdoer they’ve been summoned to pursue or someone who’s grievously wronged another in the judge’s presence, they add all extra successes instead. Defensive [[Charms]] Wreathed in Righteousness (10m, 1wp; Reflexive; Until next turn; Counterattack, Decisive-only, Perilous; [[Essence]] 5): The judge gains +2 [[Defense|Parry]] and can make decisive counterattacks in response to each attack made against them. Counterattacks against the wrongdoer they’ve been summoned to pursue or those who’s grievously wronged another in the judge’s presence add +5 dice of damage. Mobility [[Charms]] Implacable Justiciar (10m, 1wp; Simple; Indefinite; [[Essence]] 5): As long as the judge is pursuing the wrongdoer, they can move up to fifty miles per hour and pass through all mundane obstacles and barriers as if dematerialized. If the wrongdoer can travel faster than that, the judge matches his speed. Social [[Charms]] Come Forth to Justice (10m, 1wp; Supplemental; Instant; [[Essence]] 3): Double 7s on an influence roll to inspire remorse or convince someone to accept punishment. Resisting requires citing a Major or Defining [[Intimacy]] in a [[Decision Points|Decision Point]], and costs two [[Willpower]]. Perjury-Abjuring Charge (5m; Supplemental; Instant): When the judge makes an influence roll to convince someone to tell the truth or reveal something he’s hidden, he can’t use [[Intimacy|Intimacies]] based on self-interest, fear, or disregard for law or negative Ties toward the judge or their summoner to defend against that influence. Even if they fail, the judge can tell if their target’s response is a lie Weight the Scales (10m; Simple; Instant; [[Essence]] 2; [[Eclipse]]): Roll [[Read Intentions]] against everyone the judge can see. Success reveals what each character would consider a just punishment for a given act, or for a given individual based on what he knows of her misdeeds. The judge can leverage information revealed this way as though it were a Minor [[Intimacy]]. [[Miscellaneous]] [[Charms]] Scheme-Unveiling Contemplation (10m, 1wp; Supplemental; Instant): Double 7s on an [[Investigation]] or [[Tracking]] roll, succeeding automatically unless opposed by magic. Every three extra successes reveal a clue about a character’s identity, motives, past crimes, or countermeasures taken against pursuers. This can oppose magic like [[Traceless Passage]].