---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: Ritual, 2wp
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: One week
---
*Guising herself in an enemy’s visage, the sorcerer binds his reflection to herself to bear witness against its master.*
Tracing a foe’s name in her blood or spittle upon a mirror, the sorcerer binds his reflection to bear witness against him. The sorcerer performs a ritual to bind the reflection of someone she has a negative [[Intimacy|Tie]] toward. This takes a few minutes and requires her wear some symbolic link to him — a piece of his clothing, a piece of his hair worn in a locket, etc. She rolls ([[Wits]] + [[Occult]]) against his [[Guile]], adding ([[Intimacy]]) non-Charm dice. Success changes her reflection into the target’s own, leaving him without a reflection. The reflection advises her on the target’s weaknesses and plots — although it is a willful, chaotic, and frustrating advisor. For other characters, noticing the sorcerer’s altered reflection is a ({Wits or Perception} + [[Awareness]]) against the sorcerer’s ([[Essence]]), which fails automatically unless enhanced by magic. The sorcerer may spend one [[Willpower]] to ask the reflection a question about her target, rolling ([[Manipulation]] + [[Occult]]) against a difficulty of the target’s [[Guile]] and adding ([[Intimacy]]) bonus dice. If successful, she’s able to outwit it into giving a useful answer. It has extensive knowledge of the target’s habits, instincts, skills, vulnerabilities, and [[Intimacy|Intimacies]], and may be aware of other aspects of his life, though it’s not aware of his current activities while it’s bound. Control: The reflections of those the sorcerer’s previously used this spell on occasionally appear in mirrors alongside her own. She may cast it without a link if she’s previously interacted with her target in person. Once she does, she must meet him in person again before she can cast this spell on him without a link again. Distortion (15): A rival sorcerer may twist the spell to empower the reflection, granting it +3 [[Guile]]. He may do so from afar if it’s his own reflection. If casting sorcerer fails a roll to interrogate the reflection, it disgorges convincing lies that seem true, but ultimately serve the original target.