---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/lunar-book
Cost: 10sm, 2wp
Keywords:
  - Decisive-only
Duration: Instant or Indefinite
---
*Pursing her lips, the sorcerer exhales a puff of shimmering mist that condenses into a javelin of ice.*
She hurls it at a point within long range, shattering into a burst of icy blue mist. She rolls an unblockable ([[Dexterity]] + [[Thrown]]) decisive attack, adding ([[Occult]]) dice, against everyone within medium range of the spear’s impact. It deals ([[Intelligence]]) dice of lethal damage to those hit, ignoring [[Hardness]], and the sorcerer divides her [[Initiative]] evenly among all of them, rounding up, on top of this. Battle groups instead take (sorcerer’s [[Intelligence]] + [[Initiative]]) dice of damage, without counting against her total [[Initiative]]. For ([[Essence]]) hours thereafter, an eerie cold fills the area, a difficulty (sorcerer’s [[Intelligence]]), Damage 1B/hour hazard. Exposed surfaces freeze over for the duration, becoming difficult terrain and imposing a –3 penalty on balance-related rolls. Bodies of water freeze into icebergs and floes, which are naval hazards (Exalted, p. 244) requiring a single roll at difficulty (sorcerer’s [[Intelligence]]); failure inflicts one [[Hull]] damage and leaves the ship immobilized, requiring it to be broken free before it can move. These can dam all but Creation’s widest rivers. A sorcerer may withhold the Thorn, wielding it as a [[Spear]] ([[Accuracy]] +3; Damage 12L/4; [[Defense]] +1; Tags: Lethal, [[Melee]], [[Thrown]] (Short), Piercing). She can use her entire turn to make a decisive attack that shatters the [[Spear]] and unleashes a freezing vapor, as per the spell’s primary effect. A sorcerer with this as her control spell may extend its effects to ([[Essence]]) days. Treat wood and water spirits as having a Minor [[Intimacy|Tie]] of fear toward her, cowed by her wintry presence. While she wields the Thorn, it’s exceptional equipment (Exalted, p. 580) for intimidating them.