---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/lunar-book
Cost: 25sm, 2wp
Keywords:
  - Perilous
Duration: Instant or Until ended
---
The sorcerer sings in meaningless glossolalia that evokes the Storm Who Drowned the World. A churning pillar of water forms above her, drawn from nearby lakes and rivers, deep aquifers, and the clouds themselves. It then collapses in a great wave, engulfing a 90-degree arc out to short range. This is a difficulty ([[Intelligence]]), damage 1B environmental hazard. Battle groups that fail their roll against the hazard check for rout (Exalted, p. 209). Mundane structures less than one range band high and similar inanimate objects suffer uncountable damage (Exalted, p. 205) at the Storyteller’s discretion, as the wave uproots trees, crushes stone buildings, and washes away fields. Characters caught in the wave suffer a –3 penalty on rolls other than those against the hazard. Once the sorcerer’s begun casting, she can sustain the spell with an unrolled [[Shape Sorcery]] action each turn at no cost, causing the wave to advance another range band, maximum three consecutive rounds. Characters who failed their roll on her previous turn are dragged along. If it caused significant structural damage, the hazard’s damage increases by one die each subsequent round from the debris caught in the wave. Some circumstances, like being dammed by a structure too sturdy to break, may block it, in which case it’s redirected in one or more different directions, at the Storyteller’s discretion. The sorcerer can’t continue sustaining the spell if she takes any movement actions. Once the sorcerer ceases sustaining the wave or is crashed, it collapses, drenching the ground with water. Earthen surfaces caught in the spell’s area become difficult terrain (Exalted, p. 199) until they dry out; the Storyteller dictates how the water behaves on other surfaces, which may include drowning those unable to escape. A sorcerer with this as her control spell can guide and shape the wave as it moves. She can cause it to change direction in mid-course, flow around obstacles, or split and harmlessly flow around certain characters or structures. When she experiences strong emotions, nearby bodies of water become agitated, furiously roiling and churning. Distortion (Goal Number: 10): Distorting the wave causes it to flow harmlessly around the distorting sorcerer and anyone within close range of him for the duration. This can be accomplished even by a sorcerer already engulfed in the wave. EX3 316 In a certain longhouse at the edge of town in eastern Kulinth, two men played cards. They’d played Deliberative, Ring the Mountain, and Salt, and the night began its retreat from the rising sun. Other players had come and gone. The longhouse was empty now, and quiet but for shuffling cards and the warm summer wind howling outside. The first player: Winglord Ledaal Haraku, Kulinth’s Imperial garrison commander. Azure tinged his hair and moustache, and he kept a cruel blue-jade dagger on the table, “to aid Plentimon’s judgment of cheaters.” His opponent: Azu Tegama Asarkon, who’d charmed his way into one game, then stayed for the rest. He’d lost more than he’d won, but his self-effacing smile never faltered. Tegama kept his hands where Haraku’s sharp eyes could see, and kept his weapon nowhere at all. “Shall we play one more game, commander, before sunrise?” asked Tegama. “Qibing, if it please you. Marukani rules.” “Qibing’s fine, but answer me a question first.” “Of course.” “Do you think me a fool?” Tegama paused, smiling in confusion. “Hardly, commander. You bested me decisively in Deliberative.” The Dragon-Blood kept his gaze on Tegama. “I know how assassins work. You’ve gotten me alone. The other players, lodgers, even my own retinue left as we played. I only wonder how I didn’t notice their absence, or think to ask your name, until now.” Tegama sighed and laid out two rows of cards face-down, each an opposing line of cavalry. “Your eyes are sharp, commander. Maybe too sharp. I merely had to be too interesting for you to look away.” “No, it’s more than that. I’ve never known anyone to play with such love for the game. I thought I’d found a like spirit. A friend.” “I was only a mirror, commander.” Tegama smiled apologetically. He rested two fingers on his cavalry line, the traditional ready position. “You saw the passion you wished to see.” “Then what are you, inside?” demanded Haraku coldly, readying his own cavalry. “What passion does a mirror have?” “I respect others’ passions: your honesty, your love of games.” Tegama smiled earnestly. “And I respect the people’s yearning to shatter the Realm’s crushing grip on Kulinth.” Haraku kicked over the table, scattering cards, and snatched his cruel dagger from the air. Tegama reached into no-place, where secrets were kept, and found his moonsilver blade. He pulled the sheathed daiklave into view with his left hand, and drew with his right, slicing through the table in a single stroke. Haraku skated between the falling table halves on a gust of air, ducking Tegama’s outstretched blade. The jade dagger moved quicker than lightning and would’ve cut Tegama’s belly open if not for the sheath in his off hand. He blocked the dagger at its hilt, barely, but with force enough to stagger Haraku. Tegama pressed his brief advantage mercilessly, driving the Dragon-Blood back with long-arced sweeps of moonsilver. He sheathed his blade anew after each strike, only to draw it again with blinding speed. Haraku dodged with foresight born of experience, shouting, “I won’t die for your revolution, smiling devil!” His wrath became a whirlwind, and cards rose to obscure him so his blade seemed to come at Tegama from a hundred directions. Tegama felt death all around, and sought refuge in simplicity. He unsheathed his blade, as thoughtless and effortless as releasing a breath, and let the wind guide it to the storm’s heart. Moonsilver found flesh, and crimson droplets whirled through the air, spattering Tegama like rain. Haraku fell, gasping, blood-slick hands clutching his chest. Tegama raised his blade. “Not for mine,” he agreed. “For everyone’s.” EX3 318 [[RESONANCE AND DISSONANCE]] RESONANCE AND DISSONANCE Different Exalted harmonize differently with each Different Exalted harmonize differently with each of the magical materials. An Exalt can be resoof the magical materials. An Exalt can be resonant, neutral, or dissonant with a material. The nant, neutral, or dissonant with a material. The Resonant and Dissonant keywords mark EvocaResonant and Dissonant keywords mark [[Evocations]] that function differently depending on the tions that function differently depending on the user’s affinity. Lunars are resonant with moonsiluser’s affinity. Lunars are resonant with moonsilver and neutral with the other magical materials, ver and neutral with the other magical materials, although [[Deadly Beastman Transformation]] (p. XX) although [[Deadly Beastman Transformation]] (p. XX) weakens this by one step. See weakens this by one step. See Arms of the ChoArms of the Chosen sen, pp. 16-17, for more. , pp. 16-17, for more. Chapter Eight Wrought from Moonsilver [[Eyebright]] (Moonsilver [[Lamellar]] Armor, [[Artifact]] 
- 
- 
- ) Having retired from soldiering, Ophione grew old and blind with her kin, but her alertness never dimmed. When her village sheltered a band of travelers overnight, she sensed a wrongness about them. When the bandits threw off their disguises to strike by night, she Exalted fighting them off. ThoughOphionelovedherpeople,asmallvillageoffered little scope for her renewed vitality and heroic passions. While wandering Creation, Ophione encountered the Dragon-Blooded prince Anandra of Brass; she deemed him honorable and well-intentioned, and eventually sought a commission among his captains. Anandra had [[Eyebright]] forged so that Ophione need not go without sight in his service. She was his strong right hand on the battlefield and in his Dreaming Sea court, but Anandra’s lifespan proved shorter than hers. Though she was his logical heir, she had no interest in ruling or generalship, and left to wander Creation once again. After Ophione perished in the fateful duel where she slew her overambitious Solar mate, the formidable East Wind Prince, [[Eyebright]] vanished from history for centuries, reappearing after the Usurpation in Thousand-Swords Oravan’s armory. Since his Silver Principiate’s fall, the hauberk has passed between many Lunars; it currently resides in the treasure vaults of the Three Devil Princes of the Southwest, who await a worthy bearer. A coat of glittering moonsilver scales reinforced with pauldrons and vambraces, Eyebright’s most noteworthy features are its star sapphires. Seventy-seven in number, large as robin’s eggs, the gems sparkle all across its surface. Each serves as an eye, its chatoyant star shifting to follow its wearer’s attention. Attunement: 5m; Type: Medium ([[Soak]] +8, HardAttunement: 5m; Type: Medium ([[Soak]] +8, [[Hardness]] 7, [[Mobility Penalty]] −1) ness 7, [[Mobility Penalty]] −1) Tags: None Tags: None [[Hearthstone]] slot(s): 2 [[Hearthstone]] slot(s): 2 Era: Wars of Realignment Era: Wars of Realignment [[Evocations]] of [[Eyebright]] Eyebright’s wearer can see in all directions, adding one success on sight-based rolls opposing [[Stealth]]. She ignores penalties from visual impairment to her own eyes, such as blindness, but not from impairment that also affects the armor’s eyes, such as darkness or fog. Eyebright’s [[Evocations]] rely on the wearer’s understanding ofheropponents,measuredbyInsight.HerInsightintoeach opponent equals the highest value of any of that character’s Intimacies relevant to the fight of which she’s aware, e.g., Intimacies that sparked the confrontation or those that influencetheopponent’stacticsandprioritiesduringthefight.