---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: 25sm, 2wp
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: (Essence) hours
---
In the waning days of the Divine Revolution, war-weary Ancients took to wrecking a Creation they thought they might soon lose, and thus were the wardens of the nepenthean gardens exiled beyond reality to a realm of smoke and loneliness. Through will and work, a sorcerer may loosen this exile, drawing a warden back into Creation to resume its benevolent work. These gentle beings speak no language but understand all, even the calls of animals. While they gain a Major [[Intimacy|Tie]] of loyalty and gratitude towards their summoner, they offer their healing gifts freely whenever safe to do so, even to the sorcerer’s foes. Control: The spell’s duration extends to one day, and once per story she may permanently release one of the wardens from their exile; while forever grateful, they never remain in her retinue for more than a story, instead venturing into the world to continue their healing work. Distortion (20): The sorcerer wracks a warden within medium range with visions of the prisonrealm to which they will soon return, inflicting a (sorcerer’s [[Essence]]) penalty on their actions and removing the effects of Inviolate Purpose. [PLEASE FORMAT AS QUICK CHARACTER IN SIDEBAR] Warden of the Nepenthean Gardens A warden of the nepenthean gardens is a pearlescent, many-armed being standing roughly ten feet tall; their wrinkled flesh overflows with bountiful patches of healing fungi. [[Essence]]: 5; [[Willpower]]: 7; [[Join Battle]]: 5 dice Personal: 100 Health Levels: −0x4/−1x6/−2x6/−4x6/Incap. Actions: Comforting [[Influence]]: 12 dice; [[Feats of Strength]]: 9 dice (can attempt [[Strength]] 5 feats); [[Medicine]]: 14 dice; [[Read Intentions]]: 12 dice [[Appearance]] 1, [[Resolve]] 5, [[Guile]] 1 Combat [[Attack]] ([[Unarmed]]): 7 dice (Damage 10B) [[Attack]] (Grapple): 10 dice (10 dice to control) Combat [[Movement]]: 4 dice Evasion: 1; Parry: 3 Soak/Hardness: 12/5 Intimacies Defining Principle: All living beings deserve my gifts. Defining Tie: The wounded and ill (Devotion) Major Tie: The sorcerer (Gratitude) [[Merits]] Inviolate Purpose: The warden treats any influence that would prevent them from attending to those in need of healing as unacceptable. Defensive [[Charms]] Who Strikes the Innocent? (5m; Reflexive; Instant): An attack against the warden removes one success for each 1 or 2 rolled. Social [[Charms]] A Plea for All Life (15m, 1wp; Supplemental; Instant): The warden releases a wordless, bone-vibrating plea, doubling 8s on a persuade roll to halt hostilities. This waives penalties for targeting multiple characters and can be understood without a shared language. Characters must spend an extra point of [[Willpower]] to resist in a Decision Point. Once per scene. [[Miscellaneous]] [[Charms]] Pain Finds No Purchase (7m; Reflexive; One scene): Characters within short range reduce their total penalties from wounds, illness, and disease by 5. The warden may reflexively spend one [[Willpower]] to extend this to medium range until the start of their next turn. Merciful Resurgence (10m, 1wp; Simple; Instant): [[Allies]] within short range roll (their current wound penalty) dice, healing one level of non-aggravated damage for each success. The warden can reactivate this Charm on their next turn, paying a cumulative ten mote surcharge — twenty motes for the second use, thirty for the third, etc. Characters who have intentionally maimed or killed in the scene cannot benefit from this Charm. Once per scene. Gentle Ministration (15m; Simple; One day): One resting character under the warden’s care doesn’t suffer damage or ill effects from ongoing poison or disease. Bountiful Pharmacy Flesh (4m; Simple; Instant): The warden metabolizes a remedy from their body’s fungi, removing the need for equipment when treating mundane afflictions.