---
tags:
  - sorcery
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: 15sm, 2wp
Keywords:
  - Psyche
Duration: One hour
---
*The sorcerer shapes a slender needle of prismatic light and looses it into the sky, where it explodes into a swarm of sparkling constellations.*
The false stars linger in the sky, tracing lazy orbits than entrance all who look upon them. The sorcerer makes a ([[Manipulation]] + [[Occult]]) roll, doubling 9s, against the [[Resolve]] of everyone within a mile who can see the open sky. Those overcome by the spell stare contentedly at the lights unless provoked or endangered, taking only reflexive actions. Characters can enter a Decision Point and cite a Major or Defining [[Intimacy]] that compels them to resist, allowing them to spend one [[Willpower]] to shake off the enchantment. Actions that don’t directly serve or flow from the cited [[Intimacy]] suffer a −2 penalty as his mind returns time and again to how pleasant it would be to look back up at the display. At the end of the spell, anyone entranced loses all memory of the spell and what happened during it, as per arcane fate (p. XX); some savants suggest, in half-remembered accounts, that this wasn’t always the case. Control: The sorcerer can shape dazzling displays of light which count as exceptional equipment to entertain, distract, or inspire feelings or joy and wonder. When using this to enhance social influence, she may spend anima to add one non-Charm success for each level spent. Distortion (15): The sorcerer may spend one [[Willpower]] to free up to ([[Essence]]) characters at short range from the spell’s entrancement. Characters freed this way must roll ([[Wits]] + [[Integrity]]) against the original caster’s ([[Manipulation]]) at the end of the spell, or else forget the events as normal. Chapter 8: Artifacts [[Enlightening Abnegation Sabers]] (Starmetal Hook Daiklaves, [[Artifact]] 
- 
- 
- ) The [[Enlightening Abnegation Sabers]] are an exercise in minimalism. Their hooks are made of starmetal hammered into fine wire; their ornate basket hilts of black jade filigree resemble rapiers more than [[Hook Sword|hook swords]]. They were forged by Akiyo Majenda, who sought to win the heart of Spring Without Sparrows, a Sidereal who’d instructed her at Versino, predecessor to the modern Heptagram. Overcome with passion, Majenda nearly bankrupted her household acquiring the scarce quantity of starmetal necessary, but the result was a masterpiece, harnessing starmetal’s affinity for ephemeral and esoteric forces to create daiklaves capable of disarming foes of more than just their weapons. Then one morning, Majenda woke up with no memory of Spring Without Sparrows and no idea why she’d forged the daiklaves. She nonetheless found good use for them, most famously in the Wyld Hunt against Hedelshi of the Hands, the anathematic Chosen of Avarice. Upon Majenda’s death, Heaven sent a Sidereal to discreetly retrieve the blades. By chance, Spring Without Sparrows was chosen for the task, though she’d since forgotten her long-ago student. The [[Scarlet Dynasty]] wondered over the strange daiklaves’ disappearance, but with House Akiyo’s fall and the passage of centuries, they’ve been reduced to a historical footnote. Attunement: 5m Type: Medium (+3 ACC, +12 DMG, +1 DEF, OVW 4) Tags: Lethal, [[Martial Arts]], Disarming [[Hearthstone]] Slot(s): 2 Era: Reign of the [[Scarlet Empress]] [[Evocations]] of the Enlightened Abnegation Sabers Disarm gambits made with the Enlightened Abnegation Sabers reduce their [[Initiative]] cost by one.