---
tags:
  - charm
  - Solar
  - source/solar-book
Cost: 7m
Mins: Brawl 3, Essence 1
Type: Reflexive
Keywords:
  - Decisive-only
Duration: Instant
Prerequisite Charms:
  - "[[Ferocious Jab]]"
---
*At the moment of impact, the Solar sends a surge of [[Essence]] up her arm or down her leg, multiplying the force of her blow many times over.*
This Charm is activated after a successful decisive [[Brawl]] attack. If the damage roll generates at least one success, the target is knocked prone by the force of the blow, and loses a point of [[Initiative]], which is added to the Solar’s base value (typically 3) when her [[Initiative]] resets. This blow strikes with the force of a hurricane condensed into the Solar’s fist. The more damaging the blow, the more forcefully her opponent will be knocked away from her: For at least three successes, the opponent is lifted and bodily hurled into an object or surface within close range, hitting it with an impact equivalent to falling a short distance (see falling damage, p. 232), destroying any less-obdurate objects he collides with, such as wooden furniture. At four or more successes, the foe is knocked into an object at close range with tremendous force, or is sent sailing a remarkable distance by the force of the blow. If the former, the opponent hits a surface with force sufficient to leave cracks in a stone wall, impacting with a surface as if he had fallen from a medium distance. If the latter, the force of the blow throws him to short range with a short-distance falling impact. At five or more successes, the foe is thrown to short range and suffers an impact like falling from a medium height. The Solar can use [[Heaven Thunder Hammer]] to knock her opponent into a high ceiling, forcing him to contend with falling damage on the way down. She might also choose to smash him through a weak point in a nearby wall, causing him to suffer a collapse. She might aim to hurl her opponent into a spike protruding from a surface, turning the damage lethal, or knock her enemy from a rooftop, causing him to suffer a fall from a much greater distance. The player should include the environment in their stunts to enhance this Charm’s effectiveness. At [[Essence]] 3+, double the successes for determining the distance the victim is hurled. At 7+, the victim can be hurled to medium range with a medium height impact.

# Felling Gigantic Foes
[[Heaven Thunder Hammer]] is written in reference to foes that are as large or not much larger than the Solar. Unless the Solar is extremely physically strong, even the mightiest god-felling blow will only send a tyrant lizard or other giant opponent crashing into scenery at close range. In order to launch such a gigantic foe with [[Heaven Thunder Hammer]], the Solar’s incredible strength should be surging and demonstrable at the moment of the attack. [[Athletics]] [[Charms]] such as [[Nine Aeons Thew]] (p. 267) help with this effect. When used in conjunction with [[Heaven Thunder Hammer]], such [[Charms]] allow the Exalt to launch gigantic foes exactly as if they were of a relative size to the Exalt. Of course, combining a number of strength-boosting [[Charms]] with [[Heaven Thunder Hammer]] may allow the Solar to blast opponents across spectacular distances, causing them to leave impact craters in thick stone surfaces. How far an opponent can be hurled, and how much additional damage this does, is up to the Storyteller. Storytellers should use the basic rules of [[Heaven Thunder Hammer]] to decide what works best for their games. The exact same [[Intimacy|principle]] applies to the Charm [[Crashing Wave Throw]], though characters need the Charm [[Dragon Coil Technique]] or an acceptable activation of [[Athletics]] [[Charms]] to successfully grapple gigantic foes in the first place. 