---
tags:
  - evocation
Cost: 15m, 1wp
Mins: Essence 1
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Decisive-only
Duration: Instant
Prerequisite Charms:
  -  None
---
After a turn spent aiming, an implosion bow’s master can use this Evocation to fire on a point out to long range. She rolls a single unblockable decisive attack roll against all characters within short range of the impact point, both allies and enemies. Battle groups and trivial characters are automatically hit, regardless of their Defense, on any result but a botch. Each character hit suffers base decisive damage equal to the attack’s threshold successes. Divide the attacker’s Initiative evenly among them to determine the total damage, rounding up. An enemy that takes any damage is knocked prone and dragged one range band towards the center of the vortex. An enemy that dodges the attack by 3 successes or fewer suffers a tactical disadvantage even though they’re able to avoid the blast, suffering (Essence) dice of unsoakable withering damage. The artillerist gains all Initiative reaped by this attack. As long as one enemy is hit, the attacker is reset to base Initiative (plus any gained by making this attack). The bodies of enemies incapacitated by an implosion bow’s blast are destroyed utterly, drawn into the collapsing vortex and disintegrating within, leaving behind only artifacts and other indestructible items. Scenery, mundane structures, and unattended objects within range are also drawn into the vortex, suffering uncountable damage (Exalted, p. 205), leaving behind difficult terrain. This Evocation can only be used once per scene unless reset by remaining in place without taking any movement actions for three consecutive rounds as the implosion bow recharges. If the attuned character suffers Initiative Crash, any built-up power is lost, and she must spend another three rounds motionless to reset this Evocation. After a scene in which this Evocation is used, the implosion bow must receive maintenance before it can be fired again. This is a difficulty 3 roll for a character using Craft (First Age Artifice), or difficulty 6 for a character using Craft (Artifacts). A failed roll cannot be retried until a full day has passed. 

## Special activation rules

This Evocation awakens at no cost when a character attunes to an implosion bow. Vehicles Horizon Endeavor (Orichalcum Warship, Artifact § 
-
-
-
-) One of the greatest sailing vessels ever built amid the First Age’s shipyards, the legendary warship Horizon Endeavor has appeared in naval wars and odysseys throughout Creation’s history, and vanished from history’s pages just as often. The pirate-empress Zala Firemane sailed it into battle against the hell-leviathan Rahabaris, which the Lintha Armada had called forth to torment the West. Laughing Mirror wove fate to reshape the rivers of Diamond Grass Province so that Horizon Endeavor could fight at the Battle of Five Suns. More recent legends claim that the Lunar elder Leviathan or the Scarlet Empress herself piloted it against the dread fae prince Balor, but these tales are as preposterous as those that claim it dates back to the Niobraran War. Horizon Endeavor is a triple-masted ship of the line, but its resemblance to seafaring vessels of the Time of Tumult is like that of the eagle to the hen. Its hull is orichalcum-clad yet light enough to float gracefully over waves, while its masts are carved from indestructible timbers felled at the Old Realm’s Easternmost edge and rigged with sails spun from cloth-of-jade. The ship’s lowest decks house a marvelous device capable of drawing in water through a spiral of black jade blades to propel the ship forward even in a dead calm. Hatches along the side of its hull spring open to reveal red jade dragon cannons capable of setting entire fleets ablaze, while the ship’s tidecutter bolts soar silently beneath the sea to sink enemy ships. Attunement: 10m Speed: Current +1, empty cargo holds +1, Essence propulsion engine +4, legendary sails +8 Maneuverability: +2; Hull: −0x2/−1x4/−2x4/−4/Incap. Cargo: Horizon Endeavor can carry up to 300 men in its below-decks barracks, and has cargo holds capable of carrying several thousand tons. Some legends claim the cargo holds can bear any weight that will fit within them, such as the tale of Cormorant Black smuggling away the entire seraglio-palace of the Four Corners Suzerain, but these are most likely exaggerations. Horizon Endeavor carries the following integrated armaments: Red Jade Dragon Cannons: When the prayers inscribed on these ornate jade dragon-statues are recited aloud, they spew great gouts of flame, setting enemy ships ablaze. Three of them line each side of the ship, with a seventh on the bow. A broadside with the dragon cannons deals one point of hull damage and sets wooden ships ablaze, rolling an additional die of hull damage against them at the end of each round. A captain can direct her crew to put out the fires as a special naval stratagem rolled with (Wits + Sail) that costs two Momentum. If that ship’s captain loses the opposed roll for that stratagem, the ship remains aflame, although it doesn’t take damage from the fire that round. Outside of naval combat, the cannons are siege engines with the Lethal, Siege (Long), and Bombard tags. Tidecutter Bolts: Spiked steel bolts carved with spiraling grooves, tidecutter bolts twist through the water like augers when fired from the pressurized cylinders of orichalcum-banded steel mounted under the ship’s bow below the water line. A broadside with tidecutter bolts deals two points of hull damage. Bonus dice added by a prior Concealment stratagem are converted to successes on the broadside stratagem roll, as the bolts launch silently and almost invisibly under the water. Horizon Endeavor’s armory holds a vast but finite store of bolts. If the Storyteller deems them exhausted after multiple naval battles over the course of the story, she may require a major repair project to restock its supply. Chariot of Aerial Conquest (Orichalcum Airship, Artifact § 
-
-
-
-
-) The Chariot of Aerial Conquest is a wondrous battleairship of a lost age, when the Chosen waged war amid the skies and imposed their will through terror. It resembles a five-sided howdah large enough to bear over two dozen men, but is plated with armor of orichalcum and jade that renders it impervious to all but the deadliest attacks. It requires that a hearthstone be socketed into the crystalline control arrays at the fore of the ship to provide an uninterrupted flow of geomantic power. Using a hearthstone to power the Chariot denies its master its mote regeneration, but doesn’t impede its other effects. Once fully powered, a screen of blue jade in the foremost side turns transparent, allowing the pilot to see outside as she directs the ship, flying as high as thirty yards off the ground. In combat, it can fly up to long range above the ground and allows the pilot to roll movement actions with (Wits + Sail + Maneuverability). All occupants benefit from full cover, although enemies can use custom gambits to disable or breach the Chariot. Each of the Chariot’s other four sides can be lowered to board or debark while landed; they also feature armored arrow-slits that can be opened in flight, providing heavy cover for archers who fire through them. Once the Chariot has lifted off, its propulsion is silent. Blue jade alloyed in its hull camouflages it by blending with the color of the sky, making it impossible to notice without a difficulty 4 (Perception + Awareness) roll until it begins landing. Attunement: 5m Speed: Geomantic engine +15 Maneuverability: +3; Hull: −0/−1x2/−2x2/−4/Incap. Cargo: The chariot can carry two tons of cargo, or forty standing men in tight quarters. Hearthstones Crosswind Stone (Air, Standard) Keywords: None When this gray-streaked blue gem is socketed into an attuned artifact, its bearer may call up short, choppy gusts of wind to obstruct enemy projectiles for one scene as a miscellaneous action, imposing a one-die penalty on ranged attacks against her. Unexpected attacks ignore this penalty. She can also use the winds to blow out candles, scatter papers, or cause equally minor disturbances within short range. Eiderdown Gem (Air, Standard) Keywords: None This striated gray-and-white stone feels as light as a soap bubble. When socketed into an attuned artifact, it softens gravity’s grip on the bearer. She adds one bonus die to all movement pools when flying or gliding. When she falls from a height, calculate falling damage as though she’d fallen one less range band. Gem of the Wind-Blade (Air, Standard) Keywords: None When this orange-streaked blue stone is socketed in an attuned melee or thrown artifact weapon, it increases the weapon’s maximum throwing range by one, though not beyond Long. Set into a melee weapon that cannot normally be thrown, it grants the Thrown (Short) tag. Purifying Mercy Stone (Air, Standard) Keywords: Steady This clear jewel purifies the air within short range of its bearer, filtering out mist, smoke, poison gas, and foul odors. Visible vapors clearly delineate the globe of clear air’s outer edge. The hearthstone only functions in a gaseous atmosphere; it doesn’t create air underwater or underground. Far-Seeing Stone (Air, Greater) Keywords: Dependent The bearer of this cat’s-eye gem can conjure a blazing electric-blue eye from inside the stone. It moves as she directs, and she sees through it as if it were her own. The magic eye is immaterial and incapable of attacking; uses the Exalt’s Join Battle, combat movement and Evasion; and has (Essence) soak and Hardness, and one health level. It can’t travel more than one mile from the stone. Gem of Sapphire and Emerald (Air, Greater) Keywords: Dependent, Linked This gemstone’s appearance varies depending on the angle from which it’s viewed — blue or green, bright or dull, clear or opaque. Socketed in an attuned artifact, it grants access to the following Evocations: