---
tags:
  - sorcery
Cost: 30sm, 2wp
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: (Essence) hours
---
The sorcerer reshapes her body into a clanking metallic form of rust-streaked black iron, mimicking her human appearance but roughly cast, studded with rivets where segments of her metal skin meet. While in this form, the sorcerer may reflexively produce any manner of mundane weapons from her body—rusty iron spikes burst from her skin, knives extend from fingertips, an arm lengthens into a broadsword or warhammer, and jagged metal blades fire NO SHORTCUTS IN HELL Demons of the Second Circle and other entities that can be summoned by powerful sorcery are sometimes initiated into sorcery themselves. A player might think that he could just have a demon perform a sorcerous working for him, allowing him to reap the benefit without having to pay the experience point cost of the working. Sadly for him, this isn’t the case. The experience spent to finalize a sorcerous working represents the sorcerer’s time and effort to bring the working into being, and summoning a demon to aid in undertaking the working is just another aspect of that effort. While having a bound demon will certainly help complete the working successfully—enhancing the sorcerer’s Means, generally—it won’t let the sorcerer avoid having to pay the experience point cost. from her mouth. None of these weapons can be disarmed or destroyed. The spell grants her benefits and drawbacks equivalent to heavy artifact armor (p. 599), while rendering her capable of functioning without air, completely immune to mundane poisons, and unaffected by extremes of temperature, even when they manifest as environmental hazards. She doubles 9s on all ([Strength or Stamina] + Ability) rolls, and adds one success to all withering and decisive attack rolls. A sorcerer who knows Incomparable Body Arsenal as her control spell may create and master Evocations for it, which can only be used while this spell is active. These Evocations can enhance the armor-nature of this spell, its weapons, or a combination of both. In addition, characters with an Essence pool gain access to the following powers while this spell is active: God-Weapon Armament (8m; Reflexive; Indefinite; Stackable): When the sorcerer manifests a weapon from her Incomparable Body Arsenal, she may use this Charm to grant it the traits of an artifact weapon. The weapons created with this Charm can take on exotic and overtly magical forms—an artifact firewand might manifest as a dragon-headed helm that spit fires, while razor claws might take the form of foot-long serrated claws extending from the fingers of one hand. Multiple invocations of this Charm can be stacked to create multiple artifact weapons. Metal Behemoth Might (10m; Supplemental; Instant): When the sorcerer attempts a feat of strength, she may add +2 to her effective Strength for determining what feats she may attempt. This is not added to her dice pool. Unstoppable Juggernaut Endurance (5m, 1wp; Simple; Indefinite):Thesorcerermayreinforcehervitalitywiththis spell, gaining one -2 health level and two -4 health levels. Damage fills these temporary health levels before the sorcerer’s natural health levels of the same wound penalty, and the levels fade away when filled with damage. This power can only be used once during the spell’s duration. Distortion (Goal Number: 15): Distorting the Incomparable Body Arsenal wreaks a terrifying transformation on the opposing sorcerer as the metallic components of his transformed body spike inwards, goring innards and mutilating limbs. This inflicts a crippling comparable to an amputation (chosen by the original caster), as the enemy’s arms are rendered useless by the jagged metal spikes explodinginsidethemormetalplatesweldthemselvesover his eyes to blind him. Once the spell ends, the distortion’s mutilation is undone along with the usual transformation. The caster may attempt to recover the distorted spell to full functionality by making an extended roll with (Wits + Occult),withadifficultyof3,anintervalofoneaction(which cannot be flurried) and a goal number of the total number of cumulative successes achieved on the distortion roll, rounded up. If she succeeds, the distortion is reversed.