---
tags:
  - sorcery
Cost: 10sm, 2wp
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: One scene
---
The sorcerer calls up the lingering echoes of the past to reenact themselves before her. The sorcerer may choose a specific time in the past she wishes to view, such as “One hundred years ago, on the first day of Ascending Air,” or a subjective time that relates to something in the scene, such as “When this corpse died.” The spell creates translucent, insubstantial illusions that fill the room or area and display the events of the specified point in time. The sorcerer may mentally pause the action for detailed examination with Awareness or Investigation actions, or accelerate the flow of time within the illusion so that up to an entire day passes by in the space ofthe scene. Attempting to view events from more than five centuries ago call only vague, indistinguishable images that rarely convey useful details. The events of the recent present—within the past year or so—have yet to form substantial echoes, providing only the barest of imagery conjured. A sorcerer who knows Shadows of the Ancient Past as her controlspellmaymentallyrecordallillusionsconjuredbyany castingofthisspell.Shemaycausethemtoreappearatalater point at any time by taking a shape sorcery action at no cost. Distortion (Goal Number: 5): Distorting this spell allows the opposing sorcerer to falsify the illusions for the duration of the spell, warping and obfuscating the truth. While she cannot totally eliminate the information the casting sorcerer is attempting to discern, she may introduce all manner of contradictory evidence, red herrings, or misleading images in an attempt to throw him off the trail.