---
tags:
  - charm
  - Sidereal
Cost: 15m, 1wp
Mins: Awareness 5, Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Psyche
Duration: Instant
Prerequisite Charms:
  - Any ten Awareness Charms
---
The Sidereal brandishes a prayer strip bearing the Scripture of the Maiden and the Scythe, which blossoms with pungent violet flowers whose petals slowly wither, fall, and crumble into dust, a harbinger of death to come. The Sidereal rolls (Perception + Awareness) against the Resolve of a character who can see her prayer strip. If she beats his Resolve, he witnesses a vision of his destined death. If his death isn’t planned for in destiny — almost always the case for the Exalted — he instead sees what the Storyteller thinks is the most likely way for him to die based on current conditions. The Storyteller can briefly summarize or skip over Storyteller character’s visions. A player character’s vision can play out as a scene if the playgroup’s interested in doing so or can simply be narrated by the character’s player. The character rolls (current temporary Willpower); for each failed die, he loses one Willpower and gains one Limit. If he loses any Willpower, he gains a Defining Principle reflecting fear of death; otherwise, he gains a Defining Principle reflecting a positive outlook on death. The foretold death is not inevitable. If the affected character encounters circumstances similar to it and survives, his will to live is redoubled. His current temporary Willpower is set to ten, which can raise him above his permanent Willpower, and he loses all Limit. If he has Intimacies expressing fear of death, they become Principles that oppose that fear, chosen by his player. An Abyssal relives the moment of his Exaltation rather than witnessing his future end; while relieving his near-death is still harrowing, he doesn’t gain Limit from it. Reset: This Charm can only be used on a given character once per story. Bureaucracy — The Haywain Sidereal Bureaucracy Charms are their legendary prowess and serene calm as magistrates, censors, and functionaries of the Bureau of Destiny. It’s also their power to protect the world, fulfilling the Maiden’s Promise by bringing an ending to that which stands in the way of effective bureaucracy: corruption, discord, and if need be, lives. Under the Haywain’s auspices, these endings cast down what is stagnant and broken letting something new take their place. Needless to say, such power is greatly feared within the Celestial Bureaucracy. While Bureaucracy is most often rolled with Charisma, Manipulation, and Intelligence, Sidereal Bureaucracy Charms also benefit from high Strength. The Scripture of the Maiden’s Promise Once, there was a maiden… ...who was the living embodiment of everything right in the world. While she lived, no real harm could come to anyone. Oh, wounds, diseases, even death, sure. But she stood between the world and anything worse. “Except,” she said. “I’m going to die.” And no one listened. “I’m going to die tomorrow,” she said. And no one heard. Into the silence, she said: “There’s always an ending, after all.”