---
tags:
  - sorcery
Cost: 15sm, 1wp
Keywords:
  - None
Duration: Until ended
---
The sorcerer calls down a Cirrus Skiff to bear her skyward, a small white puffy cloud just large enough for her and one other passenger to ride upon. The cloud descends from the sky and hovers near the sorcerer like a faithful puppy until she steps on, at which point it rises into the air, obeying her mental commands. It is slow-moving, managing a pace of only (Essence x 6) miles per hour, but is virtually unlimited in its flight capability, able to rise upward with no limit other than the ability of its caster to endure the rarefied air of the upper atmosphere. In combat, the sorcerer rolls (Wits + Occult) in place of standard movement rolls to mentally direct the cloud, but otherwise faces no complications or penalties. If the sorcerer wishes to sleep, study, or otherwise rest on the Cirrus Skiff without having to give it constant instructions, she may give it a set command, such as “Fly a mile up into the air and stay there” or “Circle around the satrap’s palace,” which it will obey until she gives it new orders. The sorcerer may disembark from the skiff for up to one scene without ending this spell, but any absence beyond that ends the spell, sending the cloud flying back up into the stratosphere. A character who knows Cirrus Skiff as her control spell may cast it with an Indefinite duration. Her conjured cloud will follow after her after she disembarks, eagerly awaiting her return without ever leaving. It will follow simple instructions from the sorcerer, even when she’s not riding it, and can be summoned by the sorcerer’s call from anywhere in Creation, proceeding to her side at the best speed it can manage. 

## EXAMPLE: TWO SORCERERS 

Will decides that his Solar learned sorcery before even Exalting, serving as a cultist to the demon Glafira, the Zodiac of Blood. This is just a name and a title he made up, but he and the Storyteller work out that Glafira is a Second Circle Demon who dwells in the stars of Hell, and hungers for the end of time itself. Will takes Terrestrial Circle Sorcery at character creation, and decides to pick a shaping ritual that represents his infernalist past. He decides to use the second ritual from “Pact with an Ifrit Lord,” gaining power by praying to the Zodiac of Blood. He also picks a few Merits that he and the Storyteller agree fit that background: Infernal Nobility from “A Bargain with Mara,” and a modified version of Eye of Crimson Warning from “The Talisman of Ten Thousand Eyes” that lets him sense infernalist cults, demons, or secret paths and portals to Hell. Elliott, meanwhile, waits until a few sessions in before his Solar character learns sorcery. Over the course of the game, the circle has defeated and imprisoned a powerful raksha noble, and Elliott asks the Storyteller if he could compel the raksha to initiate him, and just use the “Scarred by Nightmares” archetype to represent this, even though the background isn’t quite the same. This is reasonable, so the Storyteller agrees. Distortion (Goal Number: 7): Distorting a Cirrus Skiff weighs it down, turning the cloud into a heavy, dense fog for a scene. The sorcerer suffers a -3 penalty on the (Wits + Occult) rolls to control the distorted skiff’s movement, and it cannot fly above long range from the ground. If it is already higher than that, it begins dropping at a rate of two range bands per round, in addition to any other movement the sorcerer takes.