---
tags:
  - charm
  - Sidereal
  - source/sidereal-book
Cost: 30m, 1wp
Mins: Lore 5, Essence 5
Type: Simple
Keywords:
  - Shaping (Fate)
Duration: (Victim’s Integrity + 5) days
Prerequisite Charms:
  - Any ten Lore Charms
---
The Sidereal brandishes a prayer strip bearing the Scripture of the Maiden in Terror, which glows a sickly green as it twists and sinks into her palm, leaving a faint tracery of emerald symbols that spell out someone’s doom. The Sidereal rolls (Intelligence + Lore) opposing the Resolve of a character within short range. The Sidereal’s player proposes a general description of the fate that will befall him if she succeeds, though that doom’s severity won’t be determined until after she rolls. Her victim’s Intimacies modify his Resolve against the Sidereal’s roll if they support or oppose the doom. Success assures that the victim’s doom will come to pass. The Sidereal’s player finalizes the details of that doom. Normally, it can cause serious complications for the victim but can’t endanger his or anyone else’s life — being sold out by a trusted friend, having one’s most prized treasure stolen, falling into disgrace in one’s community. With three extra successes, the Sidereal’s player can preordain a seriously dangerous peril — facing a great warrior in battle, contracting a life-threatening disease, having one’s yet-unborn daughter grow up to eventually strive to kill them. With five extra successes, she can cause life-changing catastrophes: being lost at sea ten years before finally returning home, facing an uprising against one’s reign as prince, being imprisoned by a treacherous sibling’s courtly intrigues. The Sidereal’s victim has an interval of at least (his Integrity + 5) days before any events will be set in motion, though some dooms may take much longer to come to pass. During this time, he can seek to break the prophecy with applicable magic or prepare for his doom. The Sidereal must commit this Charm’s cost for this interval; if she ends it prematurely or is killed, the doom subsides from an inevitability to a mere possibility. The doom is sure to happen, though the specifics may vary from the player’s description based on how events unfold in play, but fate will adapt to whatever happens to ensure her victim faces that doom in some meaningful form. However, the victim can mitigate the overall harm and impact of this doom with successful rolls, creative thinking, assistance from his allies, and other assets. This prophecy can influence the lives and decisions of mortal characters in addition to its target as necessary to bring that doom to pass but can’t force the Exalted and other supernatural beings to do anything unless their player agrees. The Sidereal has no conscious choice in the matter; she simply reveals what is inevitable. Reset: Once per story unless by accomplishing a legendary social goal (Exalted, p. 134) by fulfilling an auspicious prospect. 